
I'm going to zap through to this slide here, which I think it would be a good idea to start off with. So why are we concerned with ethics? The principles are that the work that we do, the research, the development, the evaluation should aim to maximise benefit for individuals and society. And this is the really important bit here, minimise risk and harm. OK, second principle, the rights and dignity of individuals and groups should be respected. Third principle, wherever possible, participation should be voluntary and appropriately informed. People should know what they're doing. If they're being, if they're involved in your work, they should be aware of this and they should be consenting to it. OK, fourth principles, your work should be conducted with integrity and transparency. Fifth principle, lines of responsibility and accountability should be clearly defined. And finally, independence of work should be maintained where conflicts of interest cannot be avoided. They should be made explicit. So these are principles for ethical research. And what we're looking for is for you to actually abide by them and show that you understand them. So we have this ethics checklist and Lilian is going to explain where to find it and how to complete it. And I'm going to go through the questions, bearing in mind the six principles that I've just mentioned. So the first thing we ask you to do is to select the module that you're basing your project on. And this just helps us locate your work and the context that you'll be doing it. OK, so everybody can answer that question. The second question is for you to give a brief description of your project. So again, this helps us. It's helping us know what's important to you about the work, what's firing you about doing this work. So if we have to come back with some suggestions for modifications, it's helpful for us not to be telling you not to do something that it's really important to you. So we just want a little bit of description. So this is like the introduction and you should all be able to do that. And then we come to the actual questions that pertain to ethics. So the first question says, does your project involve or have any effect on human participants? This is a yes or no question. Most of you will answer yes. So if, for example, you are doing a project where you need to gather requirements from a group of people, maybe colleagues or friends, you will be working and you will be involving other human beings. So the answer is yes. If you want people to test or evaluate something you've done, the answer will be yes. Does this have any effect on human participants? If I said, here's a project where somebody wants to develop a piece of software that will get deadly weapons more effectively to the front line of, you know, a war theatre, would you think that that was a good thing to be doing? Would you think that's an ethical thing to be doing or not? The actual development of the project might not involve any sort of stakeholder requirements or anything like that. But if the project is successful, it would result in a greater number of people being injured and perhaps killed. So although a project may not directly involve people in its development or evaluation, it might still have an impact on people. So, again, the answer would be yes. I would say that you are. That would come under human participation. Yes, in answer to the question in the chat. So if you answer yes, and we do expect most of you to answer yes, further questions will open. So first of all, if you're able to, please give further details of your reasoning for involving human participation, participants, that is, why do you need them? So any information you can give will be useful. Okay. An important one. Are all participants able to give their informed consent? So informed consent means understanding what you are agreeing to. So, you know, this may not be the case if you are working with vulnerable adults, people who are very, very unwell or children, for example. So it's important to be clear. Can participants give informed consent or not? Will the study involve vulnerable people, for example, children or disabled people? So let me give you an example. Supposing you want to do a project and you've got young children and you're developing something that young children might use, an app, for example. And you want to use your own young children as stakeholders to help you come up with some good ideas for what this should look like, what's appealing to people in their age group. Your children may not be of an age where they are able to give their informed consent and there are some sort of ethical issues. So, for example, your children might be saying, if you say, would you like to help me with my work? Your children will obviously want to help you and they'll say yes, of course, because they'll want to please you. But if when you are talking to them, if they feel a bit tired or a bit miserable or they'd rather be watching something on YouTube, you know, something, they may not be able, they may not feel able to tell you because there's a part of them that wants to please you and be doing the right thing. So we wouldn't say no necessarily to doing that type of project, but what we might say is, well, as the children are quite young and there might be a bit of conflicts and a bit of difficulty there, it's important for them to have another adult who can check to make sure they're still happy to keep going, working with you. And another adult who they can go to and say, I need to stop now. So it's not a black and white thing where there are absolute rules and you say yes or no. You sort of think of it in the balance. So we do ask, is your study likely to involve vulnerable people? OK, what safeguarding measures have you considered? So safeguarding means protecting children and vulnerable people from harm, exploitation, abuse or harassment. So I wouldn't for one minute imagine that any of you will be exploiting, abusing or harassing people. But the harm is the difficult one here. So if you imagine you maybe want to develop a technology that would help vulnerable adults know when to take drugs, you might be working with people who experience extreme discomfort. If they're not able to have a break, move around every half an hour or so. And safeguarding in this context would be making sure that you're aware of the background and the circumstances and putting appropriate measures in place to prevent harm if you are working with people in that position. OK, we also want to know, will any participants be observed covertly? Now, there's something really, really creepy about the idea of spying on people. But what other observations could be made covertly? I mean, a good example of this might be if you were doing some sort of requirements analysis by analysing all of the material on a large forum somewhere. Can any of the people posting on that forum, do they actually know they're involved in your project? Are they able to give informed consent? Well, not. But by observing how people react on forums in this particular example, you are actually observing in a form people without them being aware of it. So, you know, that's an important issue. And it goes back to one of the principles of ethical research. OK, so another point here, we'll ask you for participants involved longer than an hour at a time. Has due regard been made to the health, safety and well-being? No suitable plan? And discussed with the participants in advance. So we'll ask you to think about that. This final point, will the participants be asked about sensitive topics? For example, money, appearance, relationships, hygiene, politics, religion, protected characteristics, alcohol and drug use. So this is the sort of thing, the answer wouldn't necessarily be that we would say you can't do it if you answered yes to any of these. But given that this would be sensitive information, you would have to have a pretty good reason for wanting to gather it. So these are the questions that we would ask you to think about. OK, so the point I want to make is that you don't need to avoid projects that involve children of vulnerable people. But you do need to be mindful that these projects carry a far greater burden of responsibility and safeguarding. So there's a link here to an NSPCC article that's got some really useful information about working with children. It's very accessible. It's a kind of a 10 minute read. Now, I said that we expect that most projects will involve working with people. If you are working with people, you must produce a participant information sheet. This is nowhere near as onerous as it sounds. It's just a sheet of writing explaining about your project to the people participating in it, explaining to them what help you're looking for and explaining to them how they can stop helping if they get fed up with it. And you also need to produce a consent form, which you'll need to ask your participants to sign. So those are the points there. OK, once we've asked you about people, we move on to projects involving animals and plants. And you're asked, does your proposed research involve any action on or action that might affect any animals and or plants? And if you answer yes to this, your tutor will need to discuss this with you because there are very, very stringent regulations and laws governing work involving animals. So there's work involving animals where you may be directly experimenting or sort of involved with animals. There are other projects that may indirectly have an impact on animals. I'll give you an example of a project involving animals that we did actually turn down. This was a project where someone wanted to develop a programme that allowed people to put in the weight of an animal, put in the weight loss that was being sought. And then the programme would work out a diet for the animal. And we actually turned that project down because changes in weight in domestic animals might not just be to do with overeating or undereating. They may also be because the animal is unwell and has a serious condition that needs to be treated. So although the person who was considering this wasn't going to be doing any direct experimentation on animals at all. We felt that using what they were developing could potentially harm animals. So it goes back to the ethical principle of doing no harm. So in general, we absolutely will not approve projects that have any potential for harm involving animals, whatever the justification. OK, so we also have a section on data. And essentially here, the UK GDPR sets out seven key principles that we need you to be aware of. So we have lawfulness, fairness and transparency, purpose limitation, data minimisation, accuracy, storage limitation, integrity and confidentiality and accountability. Now, there are some very good sort of online that's very good online material, which I've put some links for here that gives you quite an accessible introduction to all of this, the government websites. We do ask you in the ethics checklist about data. So we're basically saying, does your research involve the collection of data or information? And the answer is either yes or no. We expect in most cases that it will. OK, so referring back to the earlier slide where I listed the government guidelines, what we're actually saying is, why are you collecting it? What's your purpose? What are you collecting? Who will have access to it? How will it be secure? Where will it be kept? How long will it be kept for? And how are you meeting the legal requirements? So this is something to think about at the outset. So in the first instance, Freddie, with your question, think about the project itself, but as part of your project, you should also think about the finished product and the data implications there. So there are two distinct things and it's important to do it for both, make the distinction. OK, moving on from the data, we then say, could this storage computation or data analysis of data, either with or without the use of AI, potentially harm individuals or organisations through data breaches, misuse or unintended computational outcomes? I'm really, really sure you don't need me to come up with any examples of this, but what we're looking for is that you're actually thinking about this. OK, and then moving on, the projects that do involve the use of AI, is it possible that either the outcomes or the analysis will have any impact on human decision making? So you want to think here about what ethical principle are we concerned about? And I think it's the capacity to do harm. And then the projects that do involve the use of AI, is it possible that the AI system could solely, without any human intervention, make decisions pertaining to individuals? So, again, the ethical consideration here is the capacity for harm. So, I mean, these are hard questions, they're difficult questions. You need to think about them. You can develop your responses to this checklist throughout the project as you refine things. You don't have to get it 100% right in the first instance, but you do need to start thinking about it. OK, so I'm going to hand over to Lilian now, if that's all right. Yeah, hi. So I'm just going to very quickly go through the actual submission process of the ethics checklist. Basically, there's five steps to it. There's a couple of things on your module VLE on the homepage that are hidden at the moment. We'll unhide them tomorrow morning. But one of those things is the link to the, I can point it there, the link to the checklist. So the first step is to follow the link. And when you do that, it's going to ask you to sign in to your OU Microsoft 365 account. And you're going to need your email address that ends in at ou.ac.uk. Now, you might not all be using that email address regularly. It might not be the email that you use to sign in to the OU regularly. If it's not, if you don't know where to find that email address, you can find it in your student home page. If you go to update personal details, if you follow that link and it'll take you to this profile page. There's a section about you and there it's got contact details. So you follow, click on that link to contact details and about halfway down the page, you'll see your OU email address will be listed there. So that's the email address that you use. And then the password that you need to use is the same password that you use to sign into your, that you use to sign into the OU every time you sign in. OK, so that'll take you through to your once you've signed in. Sorry, the other thing I wanted to say was if you are already signed into Microsoft 365, if you've got a work account or a personal account, you'll need to sign out of that and then into the OU Microsoft 365. So your Project Ethics portal has got two screens. It's got your home screen and then the checklist screen. On the home screen, there's some basic information. And then towards the bottom of the screen, you can look at the status of your submission and we'll come back to that a little bit later. So you'll go to to go to the checklist screen. You can either follow this link at the top of the page or click that tab or you can click on this link over here. We'll go across there now. So the next thing that you need to do is submit your project checklist. Now, don't rush into this. This is where you can review the questions before you start your submission. Once you start your submission, your your progress is not saved. So you should only start your submission when you're ready to submit. So your questions. Alexis has just been through the questions. They're all on this page. And so you can go through them. If there's anything that you're unsure of, I would recommend that you ask your tutor before you submit and they can help you. Your tutor has got to approve the submission. So if there is anything that you're worried about, then it would be a good idea to to talk things through with with your tutor. And then once you're ready to submit, then you can click the start submission button. OK. So once you've submitted, then you can come back and check on this on the status of your submission. So back to your Project Ethics home screen and scroll down to the bottom. And there's a section there, my submission status. Now, I've just taken a couple of screen grabs here so you can see the different statuses. So each submission will have its own unique ID, the date that it was submitted and then the review status. It'll have the title of the project. And if there are any tutor comments, it'll just have it won't have the full comments there. It'll just have a kind of the beginning of the comments. Now, once you have submitted your once you've pressed submit, you don't have access to your submission. So please don't request access to the SharePoint site. That will be declined. When you come here, if you once you've pressed submit, then your submission will show a status of submitted awaiting review, which is this kind of peachy colour. And that will indicate that your submission has been received by your tutor and that it's in a queue waiting for their review. Now, once your tutor has completed their review, they'll send you an outcome email and the outcome email will trigger a review status change. Now, that outcome email that you get from your tutor is an important document that you need to you need to save. So that that outcome email will have a full record of all your responses as well as the comments from your tutor. So if you want to refer back to if you want to remind yourself of any of the responses that you entered into the into the checklist, then you should. It's that email, the outcome email from your tutor that you need to go back to. So when you're when your tutor's finished their review and they send you the outcome email, it'll either come back as returned for revision or approved. So if so, then your next action is is what you do. Now, this slide, I need to just apologise for there's a bit missing off the end here, but I'll make sure that when I save the slides, it's got it's got all the information. So if you get an outcome email that says approved, then that email you need to you need to keep and add or attach to your to your assessments or your assessments. So every assessment should have an outcome email with the full text attached to it. So and then if your if your outcome email is returned for revision, then there's a problem with it that needs addressing and you need to start a new a new submission. You can't update an existing submission. So if so, what's missing off the bottom of this is that if you want to copy text from the original submission, then you need to go to that outcome email from your tutor and copy and paste the information from there. So that was all. Did anybody have any questions? I haven't been watching the chat. Vladimir asks whether we need to attach the same outcome email to each of the TMAs. This is actually really important. You need to not only attach the email, but also the the copy you've got of what you said when you complete the form. And that needs to travel with each of your three TMAs and your EMA. And if your project changes in content or scope and you feel that the form you filled out no longer reflects what you are doing, then you just need to put in another form and let your tutor know that you're doing it. George said, but you don't plan to work with people, but once your project is in progress, you see the need to involve people. Well, you know, this is what happens in real life. Things change. So at that point, you would need to do the ethics form again. And the ethics form is giving you a heads up of what you need to consider when you are working with people. So you would do the ethics form again, get some feedback and make sure you do your participant information sheet and consent forms. I mean, we do expect you to change the scope of your project as you move through it, because, you know, as you learn more about what you're doing, you'll want to change the focus. So, you know, things may well change. You shouldn't stress about them, but you should actually just, you know, keep forms up to date. Does anybody else have any questions they would like to raise? He's stating that he presumes it's a legal requirement imposed on you. Well, from my experience, any research that is done in university setting needs to be considered by its ethics. But maybe you can say just a couple of sentences more. It isn't that there is one legal requirement that says you must do this. It's more of a reflection of the prevalent laws in the UK at the moment. And it is a standard of work that you would be expected to adhere to working anywhere in the UK. If you were not to adhere to the ethical principles that we've discussed, you would run the risk of being, I don't know, at best, you know, prosecuted for some sort of defamation. You know, at worst being, you know, breaking the law, going to prison for a long time and having the key thrown away. So, it's not that there's one law. I think it's a reflection of many laws. It also is expected by most, if not all, professional bodies in the UK. For example, the BCS. I just think, Colin, you want to keep on repeating the form. What you could do is have, you know, as your work progresses, maybe before each TMA, TMAs two and three, have a look and say, well, does this still cover what I'm doing or has it changed slightly? And, you know, this is the sort of thing when we ask you to critically appraise and review and reflect that you can write about. It's a part of good project management and development that you would maybe not just review and reflect on what went well and what didn't and why, but also review and reflect on whether the ethical considerations you had at the outset of your project are still comprehensive and valid for what you're doing now. But if they are, you don't want to do unnecessary work and sort of do the form again if you don't absolutely need to. OK, why do we want you to repeat it? Your project, what you write in TMA one is a project proposal. What you write in TMAs two and TMA three are interim reports. So we're not asking you to keep on doing the ethics form. What we're asking you to do is to include what you wrote the last time you did it. Plus your tutors email approving it as an appendix so that we can check if we have any concerns that the ethics approval you have is still consistent with the work that you're doing. So it's not that we're asking you to keep on doing it. We just want it to travel with your project as a kind of an ethical passport. If your project changes, you may need to redo the form, but by then, Freddie, you'll be an absolute expert. You'll have been thinking about the ethical questions in a lot of detail and it won't be an onerous thing. Yes, Lillian's making the point, very good point, that the vast majority of you will only need to do the form once. OK, well. I'd like to thank my colleagues Lillian and Petra and earlier Andrea very, very much indeed for coming along this evening and doing this with me. And I'd like to thank all of you who attended very much for coming and for your questions. And I hope you have a brilliant time on the project. And I'm certainly looking forward to your EMAs in September this year. So I'll pause the recording, stop the recording and say good evening.
