
your TMAs and the EMA from the module calendar. So, if we look here, if I click on brief guides, there's a link to the study materials for TMA1 and there's access to the online ethics. So, if we look at the study materials for TMA1, there are all of these available. So, we've got documents here on choosing a project, how to, looking at sample project titles, this is a good one. If you go to projects ideas, you can not only see some written down ideas, but you can watch a one hour talk for each of our 10 modules where tutors who teach on those modules are suggesting ideas. Choosing a life cycle model, this is something you need to start thinking about. This is the methodology that you'll be using. There are podcasts which you may be interested in, particularly life cycle models and project choice. There are links to the library. This is the word template I mentioned, TMA and EMA template. Something on how to do a literature search, something on how to review literature. How to cite, very important. And some supporting material on the CEPI and also the templates you will need for if you are working with people, you will need to do things like participant information sheets and consent forms. So, all of this information is gathered together for you. So, in a sense, your approach should be, maybe do a bit of reading, do a bit of thinking and keep some notes. So, you get an overview of the spectrum of learning outcomes that your project will have to include. So, if you think back to the picture I had of the scales, 60% of your module is actually on, your module assessment is on project management learning outcomes. So, it's worth thinking about these. Maybe have a week reading and making some notes and then look at your project again and think about how these things will work for you. OK, so, we've got the TM470 home tab. We also have an assessment tab and this has important information about the assessment strategy, plagiarism, what it is and how to avoid it, generative AI, what we allow and what we don't allow. And it's really, really important that you should read this. And under the assessment tab, there are also links to the guidance for completing your TMAs and EMA. OK, so, if, for example, this is under the assessment tab and if you click on view task, this is just the first page of it. There are a few pages. This is actually designed to be helpful. It's giving you, you know, some lists of things to do and within the body of the text, there are actually links to the particular resources that we can access from the calendar or under the resources tab. But the actual written instructions for the TMAs give you a narrative, give you links so you could actually think about reading this and reading these references as you go. So, a lot of tutors actually just tell their students to go straight to the guidance for the TMAs and read it and start working through it. So, normally on a module, you would do maybe a few weeks work and then you get to the TMA week and then you'd look at the TMA instructions, what needs to be done. On TMA 470, you basically are going to start writing your project proposal from day one. So, you should be starting TMA 01 from your first day and sort of think about writing some notes for it. OK, so all of the resources that I've been talking about are also available under the resources tab. So, if you don't want to burrow through TMA instructions or, you know, the calendar to find the particular resource you want, you can just go straight to the resources tab. OK, so, and it is just the list, actually. OK, so the thing I'm sort of flagging here, because we are right at the beginning of the module, is that the thing that might be of particular interest would be the recordings of the project ideas. So, if we look here, for example, we've gone TMA 470 Home, gone to the resources tab, we've gone to study materials and we've gone to project ideas. So, for TM 311, for example, we've got something written about basing your project on TM 311 and some written down ideas. But here are two recorded talks that were done by tutors who teach both on TM 311 and the project, suggesting some ideas which you could build by way of a project from TM 311. So, we've got this for every single one of our stage three modules. So, I really would sort of suggest that, you know, if you're still thinking about what you might like to do, this is a really, really useful resource. OK, so we've got a forums tab. You're all experienced students, so you know that the forums tab will provide access to both your tutor groups forum and the module wide forum. And the tutorials tab will provide you with access to both your tutors, Adobe Connect room and the module wide room that we're in and all of the recordings. OK, so at half past six, I have come to the end. What I'll do, I'll pause the recording while we have questions. So.
