
Okay, so the recording has started. So automatic captions for this session are enabled and you can show or hide these captions during the session by selecting the CC closed captioning icon in the applications bar at the top of the screen. And you can move these around the screen so that they display where you want them to. But please note that the captions are not consistently accurate and therefore they're not always a true record or representation of what is being said by the trainer. So there are opportunities for questions during and at the end of the session. So please pop your questions into the chat or if you prefer to use the mic, if you could just raise your hand. So there is an icon at the top of the screen, the hand and raise. So if you just raise your hand and I'll give you microphone rights. So the aim of this session is to help you search for information sources or literature to support your project. There is a lot of useful guidance on your module site. So if you go to the resources section on your module site and look under study materials, there's lots of help on there and there's an activity on reviewing the literature that will help you write an account of the sources that you'll draw on during your project. So by the end of this session, you will be able to develop a search strategy for your project. You'll be able to identify relevant resources and databases to search. You'll be able to use advanced search techniques for online searching and critically evaluate your sources. So now we come up to TMA2 review of work in progress and it's the key information sources that we're after now. And so the evaluation side of this is getting critical. So you need to search for sources on your project topic area and then evaluate them to decide if they're relevant and credible. This will help you to identify those key pieces of literature that will inform your project. You need to submit a critical account of the sources that you have read and evaluated so far. So you may want to discuss material that you've found and read but discounted, discounted it because it didn't meet the needs of your project. So that is what giving a critical account means. It's what you've rejected as well as what you've accepted. So it's about showing that you're aware of all these alternatives and evaluated them and pick the most relevant and credible, the most key for your project. This TMA should show that you have done additional reading and that your reading has developed since TMA1 and you're now aware of the key literature for your topic area. So the stages in literature searching. Whilst we don't often sit down and write out a step by step literature search plan, there are things that you need to think about as you begin your search. So the first step is to define your search topic and then to think about what keywords to use in your search. You might have made a good start on this already for TMA1 when you were first starting to look for resources for your project. You'll also need to think about where you will search. It helps to have an idea in mind of what sort of material you want to find. So for example, do you want to find newspaper or journal articles? And next up is developing your search strategy. So basically this is where you think about how to combine your keywords and use other search techniques. So for example, phrase search, which I will show you later on, so that you get relevant results. We are going to look at advanced search techniques later. So evaluating your search results is another important step to ensure that you are finding relevant and credible sources. Literature searching is an iterative and sometimes some might say a bit messy process, which means you repeat stages constantly and amend the techniques as you go. For example, you might find that one of your keywords is too broad or that your search brings back a new keyword that will make your search even better. So don't be afraid to have a rethink and a tweak of your search strategy once you have some results. And remember to keep records as you go about what you've searched and where, as well as details of any references that you've found. This will help you to keep track of your research, such as what has worked well and what hasn't, so that you don't repeat things. And it will make it easier when you come to reference the material in your project. OK, so we're going to do a bit of a poll now. So I'm going to pull up another poll and move it somewhere appropriate. There we go. So I'm interested to know where do you search first? Do you search with a search engine? Do you use Google Scholar? Do you use the OU online library? Or do you use something else? There's no right or wrong answer. I'm not judging anybody. I'm just really interested to know where you actually search first at the moment. Let's give you all a few seconds to respond. OK, so 67, oh no, it's going up. 71% of you use a search engine and 29% use the OU online library, which is fantastic. So, yeah, we know where we've got a starting point then. That's great. Oh, it's gone down. So yeah, it's, yeah, 60, 40% search engine and OU library. OK, right, I'll just get rid of the poll. So there's nothing wrong with using a search engine as a starting point. So it's a good way of getting a quick outline of a topic and to start getting some ideas for alternative keywords. So there's absolutely nothing wrong with starting with a Google search. But we're going to look at OU library resources now and we're going to look at some of the different tools and resources you can use to search for information. So first of all, library search. So library search is our main search tool and it searches across most but not all of our databases. For example, it's quite difficult to search newspapers or images from library search and you're better off going straight to specialist databases for those. We also have the selected resources for your study pages and this is a list of resources according to subject. So I'm going to show you this later. So there's one for computing, for example, and it includes ebook databases such as O'Reilly and relevant journals like the Computer Journal. It can also help you decide which subject specific databases to search. So we've got IEEE Explore and ACM Digital Library, which are listed on there as well. And the subject databases are what we'll be focusing on today. And in just a moment, we'll have a look at them in more detail. And there are also databases for standards. So we've got British Standards Online and IEEE Explore. So now we've considered some places where you can search for material. The next stage is to come up with a suitable search strategy. So I'm going to go over some techniques that you can use to develop your search strategy. So the first part of the strategy really is to think about the keywords, phrases and synonyms. And because you've done TMA01 already, you'll probably have identified quite a few already. As you're searching and reading resources, you're likely to come across other search terms that you can use in a search. Language is very rich, so it's important to bear in mind that just using only one or two words in your search might not get the information that you really need. So use phrase searching techniques. So this involves grouping together two or more words in speech marks to create a phrase. So the search tool will then only look for instances where those words appear together in that order. So the example we've got on the screen is machine learning. So if we put speech marks around machine learning, it will only search for items that contain those words as a phrase. It won't pick up anything that those words are separating. So it's a way to get a very specific search. You can also apply truncation. So use the truncation symbol, which is usually the asterisk symbol to search for different word endings. For example, if we type in C-U-M-P-U-T and then the asterisk, it instructs the database to search for anything beginning with the letters C-U-M-P-U-T and therefore it will find compute, computer, computation, computing, etc. So you don't have to do lots of different searches using different variations of that same word. I use that all the time at work. And you can also search in specific fields within a database. So for example, an abstract or a title. So most databases will default to search in the full text, which can lead to a lot of irrelevant results. Searching in just the abstracts can be a much more efficient strategy. So our next search technique is combining keywords. So once we have our keywords, we need to combine them to make a search string. And for this, we use what we call the Boolean operators. So the Boolean operators are AND, OR and NOT. So putting an AND between search terms narrows your search as it will only find items that contain all of those terms. So you'll get a smaller number of results that will hopefully be more relevant. So the example on the screen we've got is online So the example on the screen we've got is online learning and higher education, and you can see we've used those phrases as well. Now putting an OR between your search term broadens your search. So you'd use this to combine your synonyms and your results would contain either or both terms. So the example on the screen is online or e-learning. So it would search for either or of those terms, so it will broaden out your search. Now putting a NOT between the search terms will return far fewer results. In this example, only those results that contain the phrase online learning, not distance learning. But please use the NOT operator with caution because you can sometimes end up eliminating things that are actually quite useful. So I'm now going to share my screen with you so that we can have a look at some of these search techniques in library search and one of the subject databases. So if you just give me a second, I just need to shift my screens around a little bit. And I'm now going to share my screen, so the sound might go a bit strange while I'm sharing, but just bear with me. OK, so you should all be looking at library search now, so this is the library homepage and library search is the search bar that's in the middle of the screen that's labeled search, the library. So what we're going to do is I'm going to do one particular search. So I'm going to search for accessible app. So I'm going to search for accessible app design and children. Just a basic search. And then once you've dropped it into the search box, you can either press the magnifying glass at the end of the search box that's labeled search or you can press enter. Now, the first thing I'm going to do is to sign into library search. So even if you're signed into the OU, you still need to sign into library search and you can tell if you're signed in or not, because if you look in the right hand corner, you've got the sign in option there. So if I just click on sign in. I can now see that I'm signed in because my name is now at the top right hand corner of the screen. So if you make sure you sign in, it means that you're authenticated to access everything and all the different features of library search will be available to you as well. So if we just look at our results for that particular search. So as you can see, we've got 44,714 results. I don't know about you, but it's a bit too many for me to read in one night. So we'd need to narrow that down a little bit, but I just want to show you down the right hand side, how to filter your results. So, sorry, if I just go back to the list of the list of results. So the type of resource is labeled just above the title. So the first one's a conference proceeding. In fact, most of these conference proceedings, and then we've got an ebook. Yes. And an article. So you can always tell what type of resource it is straight away because above the title, it will tell you what it is. Now, if we want to filter that down, we can go to the filter my results column, which is down the right hand side of the screen. And the first thing I'm going to do is limit it by date. So I'm going to go down to creation date. And we're going to change that from 1801, although I'm really not sure there's anything from 1801, and we're going to limit it to 2021. So we type in our date and press go, and it will instantly change the results. So you can see we've narrowed it down to 27,000, but that's still a lot. So I'm going to narrow it down a little bit further. So again, we'll go to filter my results, and I'm going to filter by peer reviewed journal articles, which is just under the label availability. So if I click select peer reviewed journal articles, I'm just going to scroll down a little bit more, and I'm going to also, I might limit it by subject. So you can also limit it by subject. So all the different subjects are here. Let's limit it down to computer science, and then we can apply filters. So we've got 1,900 results now. So let's see, for example, that we wanted to have a look at the first article. So we can have a look at the title, and we think, okay, I've not got time to have a look at that right now. I might just save it for later. So what you can do is you can save it to your favorites. So there's some icons to the right hand side of the titles, and if you click on the pin icon, which is labeled add to my favorites, it's now added to your list of favorites. So if you go up to the right hand corner of the screen, and the pin to the left hand side of your name is labeled go to my favorites, we can then retrieve our favorites. So yeah, so now we've got a list of all the things that we've saved in our favorites. Now, if you want to, if you look down the right hand side, I've got a list of tags for different subject areas, and it's different articles that I've saved for different subjects. So if you've got different areas of your research that you're doing, you can add a tag. So all you do to add a tag is go to the label add or remove tags for selected items, which is right underneath all the information about your article. And I've already got one for computing, so I'm going to add that to there. If you want to add a new one, if you just type your new tag in there and press enter, and then it will be added to your list. So I could go back to my list of computing articles, and they'll all be under there. So it's a good way of just collecting all your results. So I'm going to go back to this article that we're interested in, and I'm going to click on full text available. And that will take us straight to the article. Okay, so then you've got a HTML version of the article, or you can view it as a PDF if you want to as well. Most journal articles have an option to collect the reference, so if you click on the site option, they're all a little bit different. So you can export if you're using any of these types of reference management system. You've got a list of contents down the left hand side, so you can skip straight to which part of the article that you want to read. And we've also, not all journal articles databases have this, but on this particular one, there is an option to see other articles that have cited this article. So it's a good way of seeing research that's been done more recently to this particular article. So yeah, there's lots of different features to journal articles, and they're all a little bit different depending which supplier we get that particular article from. Okay, I'm going to go back to library search. Go back to new search. So if you go to the top of the screen, there's a horizontal menu bar, and you can click on new search, and that takes you back to the beginning. So library search is a useful tool for finding sources on a topic, but it's also useful to find a named article, for example, if you're following a reference trail. Library search, as you've seen, often returns large numbers of results, so it's making results more manageable. You should search directly in a database, and you can find databases recommended for your subject area in the selected resources for your study area on the library website. So I'm going to go back to the homepage. So we're back to the library homepage. Actually, I'll just drop the library homepage web address into the chat. It's a little bit difficult to see the chat from here, but okay, so that's the homepage. There's a link from your module site as well. Okay, so to get to your selected resources for your study page, we're going to click on the library resources tab on the horizontal menu bar at the top of the screen, and then on the library resources page, we've got a menu down the right hand side. So the first link on the menu is selected resources for your study. I'll just scroll down a little bit. So you can get a selection of databases that are relevant to your particular subject. So I'm going to choose computing. So these are most of the subjects that we study at the OU. So we're going to click on computing and have a look at the options here. So you might be able to narrow this down further depending on what you're actually looking for. But it is also worth having a look at the list of different subjects in case some of the other subjects are relevant to you. So particularly if you've got a bit of a crossover of subjects, and have a look in different subjects areas. And then you get a small selection of relevant books, journals or just databases. So let's have a look and scroll down to see what we've got here. So we've got the ACM Digital Library. IEEE Explore on there. O'Reilly, that's another popular one. So that's basically ebooks for IT professionals. You might have already used this. So what we're going to have a look at first of all is ACM Digital Library. So I'm going to click on the title. To open the database and I'm going to go to advanced search. So the advanced search option is just underneath the main search box in the middle of the screen. Okay, so what we can do is we can add our search string as one particular search, like for example like this. So we could put design and accessible and app with an asterisk and child with an asterisk. We could do it all in one row or I'll show you the alternative. So put design on one row and then we can add a row. So there's a plus sign next to the first search box and we can add a row in and we can put accessible. Now you notice that we haven't got an and anywhere. Sometimes in databases you'll get the option to drop down a box and it'll say and or and not. But if you have a look at the search tips just on the right hand side, the search tips for text field it says. So by default an and relationship is assumed between search within terms unless you supply a different operator. So it's assuming we want an and in there, which we do. So we add accessible and then another one and another one. So we've got the same search but we've just added it onto different lines if that feels easier for you. And also I just want to show you if we drop down this box to the left hand side, this is where you can do your field searching. So you can search in the title, you can search in anywhere, which is what we're going to do. You can search in the author field. So obviously if you only know the author, you can search in the abstract as well. But for just the purposes of this, we'll leave that as anywhere. And you can see that I've used in my search, I've used truncation for the word app and for the word child as well. So we're going to just scroll down and click on the search option at the bottom. So again, we've got a lot of results. We've got 85,512. But again, we've got those filters like we had on library search. So all databases have these kind of filters. So it's really good to get familiar with them. So we can pull the date up again. Or I presume we can just type in the date. So we can just type in the date. Familiar with them. So we can pull the date up again. Or I presume we can just type it in. So let's go to 2021 and apply, and that should instantly bring them down. Yep, 27,000 results. And then we're going to filter by content. So if I just scroll down to publications, under the heading publications, we've got the option to filter by content type. So if I just drop down that box and I'm going to click on research article. So that's narrowed it down a little bit more. So we've got 21,000. OK, let's just have a look at one as an example. So we'll use this one at the top. So if you just want an overview, so basically if you want to read the abstracts of an article, this database is really good because you don't have to go into the article to read it. So if you click on the drop down box next to the label show highlights, it gives you an abstract. So you don't even need to click on it to see if that is something that you're interested in because you can just see there straight away if you read the abstracts, if it's going to be useful for you. And if you want to read the full text, you would click on the PDF icon. So if we click on PDF, which is just the icon at the bottom of the result. And then we just get a PDF of the actual article. OK, so it's really worth just having a play about with these basically, just to see what results you get from each database. Right, we're going to have a look at Google Scholar now. OK, Google Scholar. So what you can actually do with Google Scholar, some of you may have used Google Scholar before, but you can actually get it to link to the OU library so that when you get a list of results, it will say find it at the OU and you'll be taken straight to that particular article in the OU library if we have it. And the way you do that is we call this the hamburger in the left hand corner of the screen. I'm sure you've got a more technical term for this, but to us this is the hamburger. And if we just click on the hamburger and we go to settings. And click on library links just under this menu to the left hand side here. And we can start typing in the Open University. It's come up because I've done this so many times and then press search. There you go. So you want the Open University, find it at the OU and then you just save. And I'm going to show you as an example. Let's do this. That's similar search again just to show you what it looks like. So we're going to do a quick search on Google Scholar design and accessible app and children. And you can either press enter or just press the magnifying glass. So the only thing with Google Scholar is you can't, there's not much to filter by. You can filter by date basically. So we could say since 2022. So let's limit it down a little bit. Since 2022. And what you can, one good thing about Google Scholar is that you can see articles that have cited a particular article. So say we're interested in this one. How can we design privately friendly apps for children? Underneath that, we've got the cited by option. They're articles that have cited this particular article. So they've referenced this particular article. So if you wanted to go further on in the research to see what we're looking at, article. So if you wanted to go further on in the research to see what was written afterwards, then you could click on that. I'll just show you. And it shows you all the articles that have cited that particular article. I'm going to use this top one as an example, because you can see we've linked it to the OU and it says find it at the OU. Now I will say that it sometimes doesn't find it at the OU, but it's always worth a click to see if you can actually get it from the OU. And there you go. So we do have access to it. So it's taking you straight to that particular article. So if you do use Google Scholar, please link it to the OU library because it makes it so much easier for you to actually be able to access things. I'm just going to go back again. And another feature of Google Scholar is this related article. So underneath the particular article, you've got this list of related articles. And again, it's worth having a look at that in case it gives you ideas for other things that you want to find as well. If you're struggling to find things related to a particular topic, then the related articles feature is quite good in Google Scholar. And for anything that you want to follow up that hasn't found it at the OU, you can always go back to library search and try searching for those particular articles if they don't come up with the find it at the OU. OK, I'm going to come back to the slides and see if you've got any questions. So I'm going to stop sharing. So just bear with me a moment. I just had this awful feeling that you'd all left because the attendees pod was completely empty. Anyway, there you are. OK, so what we're going to do, if I go back to slides. I'm going to we're going to do an activity. So I'm going to get you to do an activity. So I know for a fact that these links are not working properly. So if you just bear with me, I shall drop them into the chat. So we've got IEEE Explore. What's the link to that? And write the ACM. Right, hopefully those links in the chat will work. So you've got five minutes to try the following. So either go to the ACM Digital Library or IEEE Explore and search for information about mental health and app design. But that's just a suggestion. If you've got something else that you really want to research, then please research whatever you want to. And if you want to, if you could share one interesting result in the chat, that would be great. If you find anything useful, remember to save it or to make a note of the source. And things not to forget are keywords, synonyms, phrase searching, Boolean logic and truncation. So I'm going to mute myself for five minutes. But if you've got any problems or you want to discuss anything or something you don't understand, then please just pop up, either put in the chat or put your hand up. So I'll put a timer on for five minutes. I should have said, actually, if you're a screen reader user, you need to use IEEE Explore for this activity and not ACM Digital Library because it's got poor accessibility for keyboard only and screen reader users. So if you've got accessibility issues, if you just use IEEE Explore. And if you're a screen reader user, you need to use IEEE Explore. And if you're a screen reader user, you need to use IEEE Explore. And if you're a screen reader user, you need to use IEEE Explore. And if you're a screen reader user, you need to use IEEE Explore. And if you're a screen reader user, you need to use IEEE Explore. And if you're a screen reader user, you need to use IEEE Explore. And if you're a screen reader user, you need to use IEEE Explore. OK, so that's the end of the five minutes. So I hope you managed to find something that was useful to you or something that was useful related to the suggested topic. And I see that Nina's found something useful. That's great. Yeah, so that was just a little try out just to see, you know, just so you can get the hang of it and ask any questions. So this is just a summary or a recap slide of what we've just talked about. So we'll move on to citation searching. So citation searching is another way to find relevant research in a subject area by looking at what references have been used in an article. So that's going back in time and reading what the authors read to inform the article and who has used or cited an article since it was published. So what we've already, what I've already pointed out in Google Scholar. So that's going forward in time to see how the article contributed to the scholarly conversation going forward. So this is useful to follow how research or debate has developed, find more up to date research on a topic and find related articles. And you can also find the most cited articles. So I showed you in the earlier demo how we can use Google Scholar to follow the cited by links. And there are two other databases. So Web of Science and Scopus are also good for this type of searching. So we're going to have a look at using Web of Science for citation searching. So again, I'm going to share my screen. So if you just bear with me again. Now, I'm going to actually go to library search because anything that you want to find, you can actually find on library search. So you don't have to go through selected resources if you study for databases, you can actually search for them. So I'm going to search for Web of Science. And I can see the top result is a database, so that's the one we need. So if we click on that. And click on full text available, it takes us straight through. So I'm going to search for a particular journal article. So I'm just going to drop it into the chat just so you can see the full reference for the article. OK, so I'm going to just type in the or copy and paste the journal article title, so we've got digital image, steganography and steganalysis, a journey of the past three decades, and then you can either press enter or you can press the magnifying glass. I've just gone to a question because I've just noticed there's a question in the chat. So comrades ask, wouldn't it be the case that the OU library envelopes all of Google Scholar and the Web of Science? As in any search inside the OU library search box will also include articles from the Web of Science. So that's a really great question. And the answer is usually. But the thing with library searches, it also includes everything else as well. So if you want to do citation searching, then it is better to go to one of our databases because you'll get less more relevant results. If you see what I mean with with library search, you're searching through everything all the time. So it's quite if you know what you really want to look for and you want to do a bit of citation searching, particularly if you've got an actual article title that we have here, a specific article that you want to look at to follow the citations easily. It's better to go to one of our databases and not everything that you get as a result on Google Scholar will be available for through the OU library because of how our subscriptions work. You could find things on Google Scholar that we might not have access to. I hope that helps. OK, so we've put our article title in and we've got 100 results. So you can see we've got much less results on Web of Science than we have with library search. So if I just scroll down a bit. OK, so let's have a look. So the first one is our results. So this is the article that we're looking for. And you can see to the right hand side of the article title, we've got 56 citations. So there's 56 articles that have cited that particular article. So we could click on that. Let's click on it as an example. And it gives you those 56 articles. So again, you can go forward in time and see what was written after that. Let me go back again. OK, go back. Let's go back. There we go. You can also carry out a topic search. So if you've not got a particular article that you want to search for and you just want to do a topic search, you can do a topic search and sort results by the citations, which is highest first. So. You would get. You would get right, so you list of results you would sort by and then change it to. Citations highest first. I'm just I've not done a subject search, but I'm just showing you this as an example. So, for example, the top one in here has got 205 citations. So 205 articles articles written after this one have actually referred to this one. But one thing I will say is that the highest number of citations doesn't mean that it's the most the best article for your particular subject, because you might have an article that was written last year that it's not got as many citations, but it doesn't mean that it's not as relevant or as accurate. It just means that it's newer and it's not had time to get those citations. So, for example, this one was written in 2018 and it's had time to get 205 citations after that. So just keep that in your mind when you're thinking about the number of citations. But again, yeah, Web of Science is a really great one to have a little play about with, particularly if you wanted to follow a bit of a trail from a particular article. OK, I'm going to go back to the slides again. OK, so selecting and evaluating sources. So this is really crucial when you're looking for information, both in the online library and on the Internet. So some techniques to help with selecting information from your search results. So initial scanning and skimming. So look at the summaries and abstracts in your search results. Check where the information is coming from. Is it a journal? Is it a newspaper? Is it a website? Is it social media? If you're not sure about some information you found, try to verify it from another source. And can you find out more information about the authors? Skim read articles, look at the abstracts, the intro and the conclusion. If it doesn't look useful, don't bother reading it. And you can consider limiting your article searches to peer reviewed journals. At postgraduate level, you are expected to be reading critically. So you need to be asking questions of what you are reading as you are reading it to understand how it fits into the wider body of literature on the subject. So the prompt framework is one method that may help you remember the different points you need to consider when evaluating a piece of information. For example, so we've got this, it's a mnemonic, so it's presentation, relevance, objectivity, method, provenance and timeliness. So pick a couple of these out. So objectivity, was the research funded by a source that could influence the findings? Methodologies, what were the research methodologies? If there are conflicts in studies, why do you think that that is? And provenance, how are the authors viewed in the field? Has this study been cited? So just things to think about. There's a link on the slide to more detailed guidance about the prompt criteria. Let me see if I can just drop that into the chat. OK, that's the link to the critical skills activity. I will have to find the activity for the prompt just towards the end of the session. Yes, so you can use the different sections of an academic journal article to help you read it both critically and quickly. And you might like to work through the critical skills activity that I've just dropped into the chat, which has lots of tips to help you critically read an academic article. So where can you go for help and support? So on your module website, under the resources tab, there is additional guidance and activities in the library links and study materials section. So, for example, guidance on how to keep up to date with new information in your chosen topic area and an activity on preparing a literature search. The help and support pages on the library website are a great place to start for finding help with finding resources. For example, there is guidance on how to find resources for your assignment, referencing and using other university libraries using the Sconell access scheme. And the library help desk is also there to help you whenever you need us. And our contact details are available on every page of the library website. And our web chat is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. But don't worry, they don't make us work 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We do hand over to librarians in other countries after five o'clock. But, yeah, if you wake up in the middle of the night, three o'clock in the morning and you need some help with finding resources or anything like that, then you can use the web chat. OK, so we're nearly coming to the end of the session, so you should now be able to develop a search strategy for your project. Identify relevant resources and databases to search. Use advanced search techniques for online searching and critically evaluate your sources. And I'd be grateful if you could fill in the feedback file because that gives you a chance to win a £20 voucher. It's not actually an Amazon voucher anymore. That shouldn't say Amazon voucher, it's a shopping voucher. Yeah, and we use your feedback to improve our sessions, so that would be great if you could provide your feedback. I'm just going to find the prompt activity because the link on the slide doesn't work.
Okay, so there was a prompt activity that I've just dropped into the chat as well. But apart from that, has anybody got any questions, anything you want to ask while I'm here, anything I can help with? I'll hang around for another few minutes. If you can think of anything you want to ask, feel free to use a microphone. That's fine. Otherwise, thank you so much for joining me this evening. Good luck with your studies. And don't forget to contact the library help desk if you need any help. And I will post a news item on your module website tomorrow morning, first thing in the morning. And that will tell you where the recording is and I'll put the slides there as well. Oh, thanks, everyone. Hope you enjoy the rest of your evening. So, Darren, I don't really know what you mean. I'm studying a language with a silly name. It's not called just D, is it? It's usually just called D or D language or something like that. Oh, gosh. Right. Like see you, like see you. Yes. Right. You know what? I'm going to just have a quick let me just have a quick look just while you're here. Yeah. What I've tried to do in library search is put just the D in speech marks. So it would search for it as a phrase. But that doesn't seem to be bringing anything up, actually. Yeah. So if you put hang on, I'm going to put it into the chat so you can actually see what I mean. So if you this is with library search, but it will I would think it will work in the databases that we looked at as well. If you use that phrase D language, that's actually bringing some things up in library search for me. So if you put D language in speech marks. Because if you just put D, it's going to search. It's going to you're going to come up with all sorts. And that's one of the things that's been impeding it for the past so many years. Oh, gosh. Yeah. Well, try that. Try that technique and try it in the databases as well. And if you're still getting not very many results or not finding what you need, if you go to the library help desk, they'll be brilliant at helping you with this. Thanks for the advice. OK, no problem. So, Conrad, out of curiosity, in general, does the EU accept using references to French and German language research papers? Is that or is that not usually a thing? That's a really good question, Conrad. And that is probably one you would have to ask your tutor because I'm not sure. I would think that it would be OK, but just to double check, because it's still the research is still the same. It's still still the research. I would say I would say yes, but I would just ask your tutor just to be sure. And Nina, I have two questions about referencing, but they're a bit off topic. Should I reference web pages in other language? Oh, gosh, another language question. Another language is just like I would cite English web pages. Again, if it's if it's a direct quote that you're using, you would have to use it in its language that it was written in. But if you're paraphrasing something, you could do it in your own language, you could paraphrase in your own language, but you would still have to reference that particular item. But again, just have a quick word with your tutor just to check what they want you to do. But I would say if it was a direct quote, it's got to be in its original language. But if you're paraphrasing, then it would be in the language that you're writing your paper in. There is there is. Right. I know we're not covering referencing in this, but I will show you. There is some guidance for referencing software in a CD-ROM, which I'm just going to try and find really quickly. Just bear with me, I can never find anything under pressure. Just bear with me one second. So for question one, you're also referring to the reference at the end of the document. Your reference at the end of the document would have to be in the language that the source is in, I would say. You can't really translate a reference. I would say it was in the original source. But again, just double check with your tutor just to see what they want you to do. I'm just trying to find the referencing guidance for software. OK, so I've found the guidance in Cite Them Right, which is what you use for your module. The nearest I can find is computer programs. But if you just have a look at that, then you could put computer program CD in the square brackets. So the square brackets in a reference can usually sort of tweak a bit so you could put computer program and then CD. Yeah, hope that helps. No problem. OK, does anybody else have any questions before I close the room? OK, that's great then. Well, thank you so much. Enjoy the rest of the evening and good luck with your studies. Bye.
