tmxy475_2017j_vid002-320x176

INTERVIEWER: Hello, I'm Una Beroca. I'm the chair of the computing and IT project TM470. I'm here today with Chris Thompson and Simon Dartmoor Moore, who are two very experienced supervisors of projects. And today we're here to talk about planning, presenting, and reflecting within your projects. I'd like to start with Chris. Can you tell us a bit about the main problem students face when they plan their projects, sometimes even without a clear idea of what the project is going to be about?
CHRIS: The biggest problem at the start of the project is you've got this huge task in front of you, and what a lot of students at that point is they kind of freeze up a bit. And they say, how am I going to solve this? How am I going to get through this long plan? And the other fear then is, well, I don't really know what I'm doing, so how am I going to manage the project as I go forward?
What we want you to do is to try to produce a plan, and it doesn't have to be a perfect plan, but something that indicates more or less what you think you need to do in an order that you want to try and do them in. And we expect that to change as we go along. And if you're struggling to think about what you need to do and where to put things, we give you some tools to help you do that. So we've got the lifecycle models, and they give you a sensible ordering to start with. And that may work for your project, or it may not. But it gives you a starting point.
The next thing to think about is the risks that your project has. Those risks might be to do with your own knowledge that you need to develop, or they might be to do with people you've got to work with, or problems that you've got to solve. But if you can identify the things that you think might go wrong or the things that you're uncertain about, again, those will help you organise your plan. Because they'll give you ideas about how long things might take, or they might identify additional activities that you've not considered up to that point.
INTERVIEWER: That's great. Thinking still about planning, do you want to add something, Simon?
SIMON: Yes, you're setting off on a voyage of discovery almost like Columbus, and there will be some things that are over the horizon. You can't see them, but you can see details close too, and you can work on those, building a task list up into a plan. One of the differences between a task list and a project plan is that in a plan you have some alternatives. If something stalls, you are able to switch to another task, and you've worked out the sequence of tasks that will take you to the finish. You can also look a little bit at working backwards from the finish because there are some tasks that you know you have to do to hit the EMA deadline.
INTERVIEWER: Simon, in TMA3, students are asked to write a draft of the final report to get some feedback. Do you have any tips about how they should tackle that?
SIMON: Yes, TMA3 is building on the first two TMAs. So it's taking the best bits from them, editing them for the context for the change of perspective in terms of time, and setting out the framework for the end of module assessment. It's all one report, and we're looking at it in different stages. TMA3 won't be complete, but it does need to outline the major components of the project and the reflection that you're starting to form on the results of the project so far. If you can do that, we can give you feedback that will help you fine tune the report for the EMA. Some students, however, simply work on the project, on the coding, and stop, tell us what they've done for TMA3. And that misses out on these opportunities for feedback on the important skills of reflection.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you. Chris, do you have anything to add about presenting your work either as a draft or even need for the final report?
CHRIS: A key issue that a lot of students have is the length of their reports. So thinking carefully about what to include, being selective about your best work, to give us evidence to give you marks. So by your best work, it's the things that you believe you've done the best. So be that a really good technical solution or evidence that you have undertaken at a number of different ways to try and solve a solution, to find that best solution. Don't include things where you feel you've been sloppy, or it's not a key focus of your work. We don't need to see it all. We need to see the best stuff.
INTERVIEWER: Another thing that we keep on asking students is to do reflection, and we ask them to reflect not only on the work they have carried out but also on their own development, the development of their skills. But they find reflection quite difficult. Any advice you have there?
SIMON: Yes, a lot of the answers we see tend to be in the form of hindsight, describing what has happened. Maybe this is what I did, or the dog ate my homework. Now, there are ways we can fix this. And to extend from hindsight and to show better thinking, we might think about things that we could change, maybe feeding the dog, but that's not really the answer to the underlying problem.
If you can think about why things went wrong, what caused them to fail, or to head off in an unexpected direction. And then propose ideas that would sort that out, would prevent that from happening next time, and show why they would prevent something going wrong-- then that's really important. That's showing insight into the process, and insight is worth much more in the way of credit than hindsight.
INTERVIEWER: Great. Chris, do you have anything to add?
CHRIS: I think particularly in reflection, there's a lot of fear with students about what are we trying to mark here? And really we're looking for something that's really honest and really shows that you're developing as a professional. TMA470 for most students is one of the final modules you do in your degree. And reflection kind of feels like, well, it's not the kind of technical thing that you want to do, the thing you want to show to employers.
Now, many employers will be looking at your technical skills, but they'll also be looking for students who are able to justify their work or propose solutions to problems effectively. And reflections have been about being able to look at what you've done in the past and being able to say, how can I improve, or how can I help colleagues to improve? So treat it as something that is a core part of your professional toolbox-- something, that as you finish your degree, you're only just starting to develop-- and something that is going to be useful to you in your future careers.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much. Simon, do you have anything to add?
SIMON: Yes, reflection is like self-marking. Up til now, you have perhaps been relying on a tutor to mark your work and give you feedback, but very soon we won't be there. And if you've mastered the skills of reflective learning and reflective practise, you can mark yourself and guide yourself forward, so that you become a self-propelled learner.
INTERVIEWER: In a module team we accept feedback, and we try to improve the module all the time. And we give to students, at the moment, titles of previous projects. We give them generic ideas about possible projects based on each of the level three models, but we don't give students full projects of past students. And we are inclined to keep it like that, but students keep on asking for other projects. So do you have any comments on that or ideas about it?
SIMON: If we pick sample projects that are the best that we've seen then they look a bit scary if you're struggling with a subject, but you could still get a good result with the project. It doesn't have to succeed. It doesn't have to be all shiny, all encompassing. Alternatively, if we choose projects that are not exemplars but are average, students have difficulty working out which are the best bits and which aren't. And so we could find the poorer parts of sample projects being used, and incorporated, and driving other students in the wrong direction. One of the other problems with sample projects is they become templates, and people change their work to fit the template, and we get cookie cutter type projects.
INTERVIEWER: Chris?
CHRIS: Yeah, one of the things that concerns me the most is that all the student projects I see are unique. They're unique in terms of the topic and in the way they're written up. And when we're marking them, we look at what you do well. So if what you do well is different to what one of the exemplar projects did well then you might not have shown that important part of your work.
So we really are looking for you what you're doing and what you're good at, and giving you marks for that. So it shouldn't feel scary in the sense that you don't know what to do. Just tell us what you are doing. Tell us about your journey. Tell us about what you've learned. And that's going to deliver a great project that really fits for you.
INTERVIEWER: I think that both are great ideas, and it just reinforces what we do-- the idea of uniqueness, the idea of not using other people's work, and also the idea that it's a whole process. And students have to reflect on that process [INAUDIBLE] so thank you very much.
