
Yes, good. All good. So before we start, I would like to introduce myself and then ask my colleague, Jim, who has joined us tonight as well to quickly introduce himself. While I will be presenting, Jim will look after the chat and answer your questions as we go along. So my name is Petra Wulf. I'm a staff tutor here at The Open University and also a tutor on TM470 and also part of the module team. And just quickly hand over to Jim. Jim, do you want to introduce yourself? Hi, everyone. I'm Jim Gillen. I'm also a staff tutor at The Open University in the School of Computing and Communications. I'm a tutor on the TM470 module as well and also part of the module team. And I have been a tutor on the module now for something like eight or nine years. Thank you, Petra. Okay, cool. So thanks so much to everybody who's answered the poll. It's really good to see that many of you have been in touch. I'm going to just broadcast the results and then going to start on the presentation. So thanks, everyone. It's really good to see that 92% is really good. If you haven't, it would be really useful and helpful for yourself in order to be successful to get in touch with your tutor as soon as possible. With that, I'm going to close the poll and make it go away. So tonight, we are in Study Skills Session 4, preparing for TMA1, which is only about three weeks away from us. As I said, please feel free to ask any questions in the chat and Jim will answer as we go along. So as you know, TMA1 is the first TMA. And as you can see, it only accounts for 5% of the overall mark. So that is because we want to give you a chance to get your project idea across and get initial feedback before it really matters. And then to give you all the hints and tips and advice that we can give you in order to be successful. As you can see, the 3rd of March is the cutoff date. Now we know that a lot of you are studying other things, that you have very busy lives, that you're working. So if you do need an extension, please do reach out to your tutor. And get in touch with them, say, listen, for these reasons, I might find it difficult to submit on the 3rd of March, and then ask for an extension. By the rulebook, 21 days maximum are allowed. And that is what your tutor can give you. But always remember that for more, the more extension you get for one TMA, the more it eats into your next one. So always, you know, take a sensible approach to this. TMA1 does not, none of the TMAs or EMAs have fixed word limit. There is guidance. And the emphasis really is on guidance, about 2000 words. Now please don't get hung up on that. Nobody will stop reading. You know, if you have thousand, 700, 1800 words, and you write really concisely, that will get your message across. Sometimes, if you are going to do a very complex project, you might need 2500 words. And that's also fine. So just take this with a pinch of salt. It's a guidance. It is not a fixed limit. Before we get into the technicalities, please remember that your TM470 tutor are not teaching staff. They are supervisors and mentors. That means they are here to guide you and help you support throughout the project. They're not here to do the work for you. They are not here to teach you things because this is the project where you teach yourself. But they're here to guide you through the process of producing your project report and implementing and identifying and implementing your project. You are the PM and you are the technical lead. It is really important that you try and keep in touch with your tutor at regular intervals. So when you get in touch with them, it would be good to have some sort of communications plan that you can suggest you. You know, it could be I sent you my project diary every week or every two weeks, or we have a call every four weeks, or we have a meeting, whatever you think is appropriate in order to keep in touch. You always have to remember that in the EMA, the communication with your tutor is also assessed, so you will need to report on it. So, you know, you can't report on something that you don't do. Before you do anything else, if you haven't already, get the ethics approval form filled out and sent over. It does not have to be perfect, you know, nothing has to be perfect. It just has to be done. Put in as much information as you can. If your tutor thinks it's not sufficient, they will send it back to you and then you can amend things as needed. Quite a few of my students have already submitted the form, but it was fine and I signed it off. The thing is, if your project changes, you can always put in another ethics form. So, for example, if you said at first, I'm not going to talk to any people, and then you think, oh, I could really do with a couple of, you know, real human testers, and I'm going to get a couple of colleagues to help me test my development that I've done, then there is nobody stopping you from saying, okay, the ethics form is not relevant anymore, and you just discuss with your tutor and put in another one. What you need to do, though, is the approval form has to be done before TMA1 and as soon as possible, and then the email lets you get back from your tutor where it says it's approved and all that. You have to take a screenshot or create a PDF version and then include the complete approval form as Appendix A or Appendix 1 in your TMA. That is mandatory, as you might have seen in the indicative marking scheme. So, how do you select a project? My advice is play to your strength. Pick something that you are good at, that you have enjoyed doing in your studies. It needs to be challenging. You know, you should really try and stretch yourself a bit here, but not so ambitious that it becomes daunting. Do something where you have some knowledge about, you know, it can be anything, it can be as something in your, for example, you could be in a darts club, and maybe there is some sort of app that they could really do with to administer the club. You could do a development, you could do a design, you could do a UX design, something like that. So, something that you know well, that you have a bit of support and that you have fun with. Find a client, because you always have to do a stakeholder analysis. So, who are the people that are implicated in this project? And then always look at it also, I always think, you know, okay, I'm doing this project now, and you're going to do this for a good few months. Could you use it, for example, in a future career development? Could you say when you interview for a job or promotion or something, this is the project that I did, and you talk about and use the project that you do now, maybe next year, maybe in two years, or maybe while you're still doing it, in order to enhance your future or current career. So, in other words, do something that, you know, is fun to do, but is also a bit challenging, because you don't want to get bored in all these months. The expectations are, it has to be a solution that is within computing and IT. So, if you are addressing a business problem, make sure that the solution that you provide is mainly within computing and IT. And that is also important in, for example, your literature review. Yeah, while the subject matter that your project addresses could be a business problem, the literature that you look at needs to have the focus on the computing and IT side of the solution and of the problem. It needs to be based on one or more of your level three computing and IT modules. I would normally say one or two of them. So, for example, if you have a cyber security specialization, normally students pick TM311 and TM359. Those are usually the usual things that they base their projects on. If it's software engineering, then good candidates, for example, are TM354. It's always good to, how should I say this, if you do cyber security, sometimes it's a good idea to have some sort of practical aspect there. So, for example, if you look at 359, you could be looking at doing some sort of pen testing within an isolated environment or something like that. Whatever it is, please ensure that you discuss the solution with your tutor and you get a sort of agreement with your tutor that this project is what is expected and fulfills the criteria and is suitable for the module. If you've never written a report before, we do have a TMA template. Now, take this with a pinch of salt. Again, this might work for some of you. It doesn't work for all of you. So, if you already know how you want to structure your report, this is a suggestion. It's not a mandatory template. Use it if you want to, but, you know, change it to what you need for you to write your report. Just ensure that you have these sort of headers in a way. It doesn't have to say project goals, subscription scope, and impact. You could express it differently. Just this reflects the learning outcomes. So, as you can see, it's pretty much close to the wording. The only thing I do really want to emphasize, though, you need to have a title page. Yeah, that is something that is expected at level three. A title page where you have your project title, you have your name, your PI, and, you know, then TMA1 or whatever, or EMA, and then a contents page with page numbers. In a business report, that is an expectation that I think is not unusual. Then references. Bibliography is optional. An epilogue is definitely optional because it only applies to projects that have not finished and will be worked on for some reason after you submit your EMA. Appendix one, as I said, needs to be the project ethics approval sheet, and appendix two needs to be project block extracts. So, when you write your report, you know, you do this to get marks, if you're honest about this. So, focus on the learning outcomes. The learning outcomes are set in the indicative marking scheme. So, before you start each TMA and then the EMA, go and read the indicative marking scheme. Look at what they're asking and look at the marks that are allocated. That gives you a really good idea of where the emphasis is and what you expect to deliver. When you look at your project and what you're going to do, project management I think is pretty straightforward because every project has, you know, a project management that has to do the same things and it doesn't matter what sort of project you do, but the project itself, have a look at the learning outcomes and ensure that the project that you choose will enable you to report and deliver on those learning outcomes. So, the best of the presentation, this was just an overview, will now look at the learning outcomes. So, I think because that is what we're marking you on, this is structured that way, that we talk about the learning outcomes and then what this could look like. So, learning outcome two says identify and refine the goals and content of a work-based project. Clear title and description of the project. Yeah, so you need a title, you need a description. You need to define the nature of the problem. You need to show the boundaries, be very clear on what is it you're going to deliver and what is it you're not going to deliver and what will the solution be. It can change at this point. In TMA1 you might say the solution is this and by the time you get to TMA3 the solution might have changed. Then ask yourself, what are you proposing? Is it realistic and achievable in 10 hours per week? That is approximately how much you're supposed to work on this with eight hours project work and two hours of writing per week between now and September and it seems a long time but believe me it isn't. Once you get started it will be gone like nothing. So, here we have two examples and the way they are expressed hints at the type of project. The first managing external project resources in a large utility company challenges and opportunities. The first evaluates a system that helps the company to manage external project resources. So, it could be looking at UI or UX design of the application and then for example it could plan and design an improvement to the current tool that is being used. It could look at data storage and the security of the application and then suggest improvements. So, this is an evaluation project and it sort of hints at that at the title while the second title a collaborative inter-organizational application to manage external project resources is a development project. So, it is something where you would plan the application, you would design it and then you would might go as far as creating a small prototype or not. You might just plan and design the application. So, for example if you and we're going to see that later if you base your project on TM354 if you might remember from the project from that module you don't actually do any coding it's all about planning and design because at the end of the day if you are an architect somewhere in a software engineering company you don't do the coding you design and plan the application and then hand it over to the implementation team. Yeah, so always remember that you don't have to this is not a coding project this is a computing and IT project and what you deliver has to be grounded in that but that doesn't mean we want you to sit down and code by no means. So, next we have the title now we need the project goals we need the description scope and impact. The first thing you do is you provide context you set the scene after all what you're doing really here is over the months you are telling a story so you need to explain what is currently going on. You could for example besides using a narrative such as this you would then in the project work start with a project process map that shows the process flow or the data flow data inputs, data outputs, stakeholder analysis but for that you need to describe the background. So, after the title we have the background this is where my problem is happening. Here you can see you know it says the organization I work for we use basically we have our IT development outsource that means that we get from an external provider we get developers that we hire in now we have to somehow administer this process and this is how it currently works and then you describe the current process and you know back that up with as I said process maps and things like that. Next you get to the problem description. Now I always think it's really good to start with the high level problem and then break it down to the different stakeholders for the high problem statement is the high level problem statement is the problem is that the current process of you giving spreadsheets and email is inefficient and lacks transparency. This is the main problem if it's really good if you could here for example quantify it yeah every project for example takes x amount of admin 10 hours of administration per day or throughout the project and which costs the company or which costs so and so much. Then you start breaking it down what is the specific problem for each stakeholder and here we have the development manager cannot see the status of the resource request. So that's one problem the resources cannot be tracked and by the development manager and the resource suppliers of the guy on the person on the other side. Then the next problem is there is no feedback mechanism on the performance of the resources emails are misplaced and so on. So you have one big main problem and then you break it down into different sub problems by taking a strategic approach to the way you address this. It enables you to track where you are what you want to address define your deliverables and later on evaluate your success. So you know think strategically. So I've had the title I've had the background I've said this is the problem now what is the aim of my project what will I do and here it depends very much on what sort of project you want to do. So for example in an evaluation project you could as I said before look at the current solution that is being used and then identify two or three options that are on the market somewhere you know for example Microsoft project or other things and you could evaluate each of them against the criteria that you would go on to define. In a development project you could create your own application against the criteria that you're going to define. In a research project if that is what you want to do which is purely theoretical so there is no practical component but even a research project then has a finding you would look at for example risks and benefits of using external resources. Now if you look for example if you look at the literature there is a plethora of literature that looks at the ins and outs and pros and cons of outsourcing your IT. So there are loads of different options how you could address this one problem. It's important it's hence this is in red that you are very clear on what are you going to deliver and state what you will do state what you won't do. It doesn't mean that set in stone you can always say I will deliver this and if I still have some time as a stretch goal I will deliver something you know another little bit or another bigger bit but I will not. So for example if you say I'm going to plan the architecture I'm going to design the user interface I'm not going to do the actual implementation or you say I will do the implementation but I will only do implement the database back end but not actually develop the front end. So you have approach in other words you have you have a plan for the software you have a design for the software and you have a database as the practical element. You don't have to it's just a suggestion the main thing here is you have to be clear on what you do and what you don't do. So that was the first learning outcome. LO4 and LO6 are all about finding sources evaluating their credibility meaning you describe how you found them you know it is did you go to google scholar did you go to the library how did you find them what criteria did you use to identify the sources how did you then select the resources how did you evaluate their credibility for example using prompt and LO6 then immense sort of you know extends that by saying okay I've got all these sources now you have to explain how those sources influence the choices that you made in your project. Here are some links the presentation by the way will be made available tomorrow I think or the day after I think my my lovely colleague who does that for me she's back tomorrow and she will upload the presentation to where the other presentations are from the study skill session so here are some news that you can go and look at yourself. Here I have provided you an example how one of my students has done this in in in his report yeah so here it is explained why the student included the literature how he found the literature that he talks about each item as you can see explaining what topic it addresses and then how it contributed to the project yeah so it's always good to have a sort of an intro into your literature review you know which explains why you have one in the first place how you allocate how you identify the sources what you do so here for example he writes the literature was selected from the open university library I used various terms keywords from the field and so on and then he cycles through the literature that he read and why it was why he found it useful and what it did for the project. Here's another example from a different student again this is for example for TMA1 I think where the student says initially five main sources considered useful for this project were chosen so from that I know okay the student is now going to cycle through the five sources and here you can see that I put a comment in there the literature review would be enhanced by explaining how exactly each source has contributed to your project yeah so make sure that besides saying what the literature is actually about you also need to make very clear the choices that you are going to make or have made you know if you are still in the process when naturally you can say I expect this article will help me with identifying which database type would be ideal for my project something like this so this is the literature review we have some library training events sessions and then I have included some links for critical thinking cite them right and reading and taking notes especially the cite them right link is important if you haven't had time to attend study skill session three please do look at the presentation and or watch the recording to know about referencing and the use of AI which brings us to the project management part of the the TMA we have LO3 which talks about resources skills and activities and LO9 which talks about planning and organizing work so there are different things that you need to provide to evidence that you have that you are thinking have been thinking and will be thinking about all these different components so we will look through them first we talk about resources now when you do a project remember you are the project manager you need to think what do I actually need to do this project that's the first thing you really should be thinking about and you make a list you write down the resource yeah so for example I need for writing my TMAs and for making notes I need a laptop or a PC or whatever it is yeah so you have the resource you have the usage and the justification where you're going to use it for and why do you need it then for example it's always a good idea to class categorize the resource and then prioritize the resource because that way you can then take this which we're going to look at in a minute in order to also address this within your risk management so you create this I'm a big fan of tables for this sort of thing so my students usually know that and I keep harping on about it and I apologize profusely but I think tables are brilliant for showing this sort of information because then in future TMAs and the EMA you can just review and update this table that means you don't have to do the work again all you need to do is you know write a bit of a narrative above or below the table and go the resource table was reviewed and at this point no new resources were identified and that shows that you are keeping an eye on your project management and you are reviewing your project management I mean you tick all the boxes but we ask you for learning outcome nine so this is one way of showing that you've been thinking about your resources here is a slightly different one as you can see very similar but still doing the same thing it categorizes the resource it describes it here the student has decided to put in the quantity sometimes it's a good idea for example here we have as you can see user time 10 minutes personal time 10 hours now you could take that to the next step and even put a cost against this you know so you could have a costing in a lot of project managements in IT costing is very important because in real life as you know it's about all about balancing budgets time and resources you know where you say okay I could really do with another developer because that would increase the you know that would decrease the time that I need but I can't afford it so I'm not going to so in other words the resources so this is the sort of thing that we would expect you to include in your TMA for that learning outcome now we've had resources now we go to planning so what you need to plan your project you need a project plan you need a task list and you need a project look before we get to that that is one of my my standard comments in my TMA one feedback always remember don't just throw a table or a chart or a diagram into your report you always need to include a narrative that explains to the reader why you are showing them this table this chart or this diagram what it shows and the justification for it in there because in your report every word you write every picture you show every table you include has to have a reason for being in the report that shows that you communicate well and you are able to write well so a project plan a project plan really is planning the time that you have for your project normally it's a really good idea to start at the end so you go okay my due date for the EMA is I can't remember the day at the moment something in September so I'm going to plan backwards let's say the last three weeks before the end I am going to reserve for the EMA writing so no project work will happen and then you work backwards that way you can see if you have enough time and you can also see if you if your project is actually feasible within that time having this sort of Gantt chart is really a good idea it doesn't have to be Microsoft project because that's way you know if you have it great but you can just do this on an excel sheet you can can do this you know in in a word document here you can see the the student use an excel sheet and it's really well done because you can see the phases but you can also see the tasks so the student has taken every task that the student identified mapped it against the time you've broken it down into days and knows exactly this is what I should be doing when this is a really good way of keeping track because then in TMA2 you can go back to this project plan and say okay this and that happened and this is why I had to you know change this activity to a week later then this one didn't take that long that way you can talk about your project plan show us that you're keeping on top of it show us that you can do project management and that you are have the awareness where you are and you know where you're going because that's the other thing about a project plan you know if you haven't got a plan how will you know where you're going and how will you know when you get there if you don't know where you're going now in order to fill the project plan we would or I we expect you to identify the tasks that you need to do so here one of the students has decided okay I'm going to do it by TMA yeah so TMA1 is what the student is going to do then from in TMA2 they're going to include all the tasks that are there here in this list yeah preparation and planning project work completed review and reflection you can see it slightly changes over time and then in TMA3 so the student here has decided I'm going to do my task list by TMA that's perfectly fine here is a different way of looking at things so the students thought about this differently because we all look at problems differently and solutions and said my task one is project initiation and planning and then they defined the sub tasks which you would then find in their project plan task two is research information gathering and so on it's really worth it creating this project plan and the task plan in as much detail as you can muster and that will improve over time you know a certain task but you can only outline at a very high level at the moment it will make more sense and you will be able to provide more detail when you actually get there in TMA2 or TMA3 so this is a foundation for you to work off which you can then refine over time now we've had the project plan we've had the tasks we've had the resources now we get to the risks those of you who've done TMA254 will be familiar with this but other projects other modules also have some sort of form of risk assessment in there again beautifully presented as a table you have a risk you evaluate the impact and probability of this risk you do need to identify a mitigation so you know every risk that you identify you should really have some sort of idea okay if this risk actually occurs what can I do about it and sometimes you know you can prevent it you can reduce the probability sometimes you just need to accept it so here for example here the student has written the downturn in the economy could result in cost cutting creating competition for resources leading to project delay and all the student can say it's okay it's low impact or probability but all I can do is accept it so this is one way of presenting that here is an example from a different student because you know I think it's useful to see that we all understand these things differently sometimes if it's a more work related project that you might have decided to do it can be very business-like here the student really looked at their own situation and they had to think about Ramadan they had to talk about their child they could be sick they might have to work more hours for some reason so they decided these are the risks that are relevant for me and this is what I'm going to address but essentially they did the same thing they have a description they have a risk control mitigation and then they have a level and this is the final table I got this from the EMA from the student where you can see that in the EMA you would just need to add one column and say end result risk result mitigated result never occurred whatever and just update the table once you have one you can update it as long as you in the narrative say below the table you write you know I have reviewed the risk table and since the last EMA I have identified no further risks or if there was I have added risk whatever all these tables are really easy to keep up to date and to review now we do ask you to do a life cycle review I think in this form it's only in TMA1 because by TMA2 you've decided on your life cycle and it's important it says select an appropriate life cycle for your project having considered all the alternatives in light of the characteristics of your specific project choice that means please look at the comparison table table 3.1 in the resources life cycle models on the website because we do expect you to create a comparison of the life cycles that we present there and an evaluation and then you need to pick one you can pick one that's not in there the main reason is you need to show an understanding of different life cycles and then explain which one you chose or if you did it shows a different one what it is and why this is the one for you so please remember in TMA1 you need to have this evaluation of the different ones and pick one. Matthew, Jim I don't want to steal your thunder but Matthew the slides the slides will be uploaded tomorrow I hope to the where you go and enter the tutorial there are other slides from the other study skill sessions and these slides will be added there so you will be able to download them where was I oh yeah so the life cycle review please remember that you need to create a comparison and then justify your choice here I for example said okay I could have an iterative project life cycle that is for me is not really relevant so I'm saying I am using a sort of form of this but I am not going to review the analysis I'm going to do the analysis I'm not going to work on that after I finish that but the design the implementation the evaluation will be an iterate will be done iterative so I've basically said you know I am using a model that doesn't exist in that form but a different type of that model in reality out there in real life that is what happens you know when people say they go to do agile most of the time it's never pure agile it's always adapted to the company to the environment to the people who are doing the project so just explain what sort of life cycle you're doing and it can be adapted and you can then show and explain why you've done that one so we've done the project management I know the skills are missing but I have included the skills in the review and reflection section so we're getting to that so now we get to the big ones L01 understanding technical concepts and L11 analyzing and solving a practical problem now this is very interrelated L01 is basically about all the theories all the concepts that underpin your project the practical work that you are then talking about for learning outcome 11 so this as I said is really interrelated because one is here is the theory 11 is and this is the application of the theory so as an example I've said I'm going to base my project on TM354 so what I do is I get out my books all the pdfs whatever I have and I go through every book and I find all the different concepts that are mentioned in the module in the book so we have for example here's here's just one example from book one in unit two we talk about requirements engineering the concept is requirements engineering and it answers the questions what are requirements yeah why do we need a structured approach what is a stakeholder analysis what are functional and non-functional requirements so in other words here you have already have four concepts and theories which you can explain so you need to name them you need to explain them with a reference to the book and then you can apply them later on so you go and do this you look through your books through your module books that you're drawing on which you've declared remember we said you're basing your your project on a level three module and this is how you find the theories and concept for learning outcome one so you write a section and you explain every concept every theory where you got it from with a good reference now as you might remember you also need to show that you are extending your skills and knowledge yeah so we show it what we already have by going back to the module now we also need to extend this now i've got my concept i now go to the library and i for example say okay i want to do what was in tm354 software testing sort of you know didn't really go into much depth so i go to the library and i search for software testing and um i do a search i say give me anything between which was published between 2010 and 2025 and for example one of the results is um homes 2024 fundamental software testing so i now have a source which i can again read it explain it you know what is in it what did you get out of it what did you learn in the literature review then the concept itself is explained in in in your project work and that can sort of overlap a bit i know that but that is not really the problem as long as you explain the concept either in the project work or you go into more detail in the literature review that's really up to you how it makes sense to you and how you want to report on it as long as you name and explain the concepts that you're talking about and that you as i said before you take the module content that you are basing on and you extend it by drawing on literature that you find either on google scholar or on the library or if for example if you go if you do a networking project you would go to cisco and and see on something very specific that you want to use in your project if they have any articles in their knowledge base and here for example you see how the student has written up uh it's a write-up of tm356 block review for learning outcome one and here the the student says in block one i focus on interaction design concepts related to usability and user experience and then as you can see the student has referenced it there then went to block two using insights from block three and then for example here you can see i've made a comment where in my in my comments i wrote low fidelity prototype could have been a definitive from an explanation because the student here doesn't actually explain what low fidelity prototypes are and then the tm356 principle there's a reference missing yeah so always remember that you need to include references and this is done pretty well here as you can see and this way the student has taught me through different concepts that they've learned in their during their studies and they've shown me that they've understood the concepts and theories which would get them really good marks for l01 and then you can see here at the at the bottom it says academic literature grounds my approach studies by cuban and so on so everything is
This here is making a really good connection between theory and application. Now this is a different, not quite as sophisticated, but also okay-ish version. Here in the project work, this is just for initial one, for TMA1, so it is rather short, is that it's a tech networking, I don't know, cyber security actually, and the student talks about VMware, that they've chosen VMware, and they have a reference in there. And then they've decided to include a screenshot, which says figure three below illustrates the design topology in GNS3, which is specific to the project, and so they tell me what it shows and then also it has a caption explaining what it is. Now below that, what cannot be seen here in the screenshot is the student has been described what actually can be seen and why he has included all the different devices on that network screenshot. In the initial exploratory work that you might include in TMA1, it is just important that you show some initial work. Nobody expects you to have done significant work at this time. We know that by the time you submit, it's only five weeks in or maybe just about six, so anything you have, you know, notes, doodles, process maps, anything that shows that you've started the project, you know, if you have handwritten notes, you can take screenshots and include them and then explain to the reader what it shows. It is important, though, that you do demonstrate that you have made a start on the project work. So that was an initial look at LO1 and LO11. As I said, you start with the concepts and theories and you then show them in your initial project work, you know, and you can just put down a plan that I intend to use this in later on as my project plan shows, when you refer back to that, when I will be doing this work and that work, as long as it's a high level relationship that you show, a high level relationship between the concepts. And naturally that will increase over time. So you might find other concepts that you want to use as well while you're working, you know, in six weeks or something, the concepts can change, your project work can change, you just report on what you're doing. So LO10 is legal, social, ethical and professional issues. The first thing that will be evaluated here is that you have included your project ethics checklist in appendix one. So that is a box you need to check. And then you need to cycle through the different issues. Now here you can see this looks a bit chaotic, but I just wanted to show you on this slide that the student really has tried to dedicate one paragraph for each issue. And that is why I've highlighted the term legal issue, social issue, user accessibility, professional issue, ethical issue. That will be very specific to your project. But it is important that you have at least a paragraph for each of the LSEP and for EDI. So you're thinking about it. So you need to identify the issue as it relates to your project. And you need to explain how your project or how you will deal with that issue within your project. This student has approached the task slightly different. As I said, it is very specific to the project. So here the student said, okay, I'm going to look at data protection and GDPR. I'm going to look at usability for a diverse workforce, job efficiency. My feedback was, I remember that to the student though, that the student should be a bit more specific on which concern they are addressing. So this was amended over time. But as you can see here, they listed the issues and how to address it within the project. I apologize, we are overrunning a bit. If you have to leave at eight o'clock, please don't worry. You can always watch the end of the recording and apologies. Then we get to LF5 and LO8, which is review and reflection. On one hand, you are reviewing your project work and your project management. On the other hand, you are reviewing your personal development of your skills and knowledge. Now here, in order to assess your skills and knowledge, really you need a baseline, obviously. Because otherwise, how can you demonstrate that you have learned something if you don't have a baseline to base it on and evaluate against? So again, I usually ask my students to create something like this, where they say, okay, these are the different skills that I will be needing for this project. They then say why they need it. They then assess in TMA1 their current skill level and they find some sort of hopefully smart goal, how they can improve the skill. And then in each TMA and later on in the EMA, they do the updates. So I did this online course and it improved my SQL skills and I tried out some of the exercises, which then enabled me in the project to implement, you know, whatever they said they would implement. That way, you really have a good idea, you know, what you need, what you have, what you need to develop and how you're going to develop it. Because you know, it does say in the learning outcome, you need to explain and demonstrate skills and knowledge and your improvement of those. This is a really simple, good, easy way to do exactly that. Here is a different way, I do remember making a few comments about this because I find it slightly overwhelming, but this is the end product as it was then submitted and the student had decided to categorize the skills by personal, technical, professional and soft skills. And as you can see here, at the end of the project, so he evaluated throughout the project and one of them was no improvement because in the text below that, which is not shown here, there was a narrative provided, which explained this in more detail. So again, as I said before, don't just, you know, throw in a table and just leave it there without any sort of explanation. But the student put in the table and then explained what the significance of the table and what it actually showed and highlighted some specific points. So, for example, goal-orientated significant improvement and why that was important to him. The review and reflection really is on looking back what you've done so far and any problems what you've encountered, yeah? So in TMA1, really, you look at what you've done since the start of the module. Then in TMA2, you add on what happened between TMA1 and TMA2 and then this goes on. And in the EMA, you then look back onto the whole of the project. That means you need to document your progress and what you do. So very important to do so also on any interaction with your tutor, you know, and you can do that by putting into the review that on the 3rd of March, I had a meeting with my tutor. We discussed the following. This was very useful or this wasn't useful, whatever it was, or I wrote an email and then you can put the email, for example, into an appendix as evidence. In order to do that effectively, I think it's really good if you get into the habit of creating a project log. First of all, you need to include extracts from the project log for getting full marks. And they need to be in an appendix. It also helps you to write the review and reflection because if you write down what you did when and what happened and the problems you had and how you solved this problem, you know, that's almost your review and reflection written. And then you can attach your project log example. And then in your review and reflection, you need to refer to the project log. So, for example, in the week before the 1st to the 8th of April, I started drawing initial wireframes sketches. While I was doing this, I realized that I had not decided if I would create a desktop version or for mobile. Yeah, this as can be seen in the project log. That way you are exactly fulfilling what we need you to do and you are ticking all the boxes for the learning outcomes. This is from one of my students from TMA1. As you can see, this is very short. That's all that was submitted for TMA1. But it showed me that something was done and it was documented and there was some thought that went into it. And then in the review and reflection section, the student talked about what is written in this log. If you haven't done reflection before, it might be an idea to have a look at reflective framework. So on this slide, and you can do that in your own time, so I'm not going to go into much detail here, is we have Cole, which, as you can see, is pretty extensive and has several steps. We then have, I have links where you can go and find them. Then we have Gibbs, where it's called the reflective cycle, which has more than the last stages. And then we have Driscoll's, what this is really simple, but at the end of the day, it does the job, you know, it is what happened, you know, so you describe exactly what happened. So what is allows you to extract the meaning from that. So what does this experience actually mean and what did you make of the whole experience? And then now what? What did you learn from it and what are you going to do different? Because a lot of people, when they think about reflection, they forget the so what. Yeah, they talk about what they experienced. They talk about the meaning that experience had, but they don't talk about the learning. But remember, the learning is important. So don't forget the now or the so what. Yeah, so what did you learn and what will you do differently? So one of these frameworks is, I think, pretty useful. Then almost last but not least, we have LO7, communicate information, ideas, problems and solutions. And as you can see, this is about proper report writing, as I said, starts off with the title page, check your spellings, check your grammar, ensure that what you say is substantiated by references. You know, we do value your opinion. But when you make statements, so for example, if you say spam is a problem for a lot of organizations, yeah, that's fine, but it would really be useful to be more specific by putting in a reference and quantifying this information. So, for example, when you can go and find sources for that, I don't know, every organization receives up to 100 spam emails a day and administering these spams and filtering spams costs organizations on average so much, many, many thousands of pounds a year and so on. But you see the difference that makes. One is just a comment and the other is really conveying information with facts that are then substantiated by a reference. Your writing should be good, will be evaluated, and then again, it comes back to a tutor contact. So use your tutor, you know, they are here, they are your mentors, so really do reach out to them and keep in contact, ask for one-to-one sessions to discuss your project, any problems you have, if there is any issue, do reach out to them, that is what they're there for. A quick note on Gen-AI, now I'm not going to go into any detail, please do watch the Study Skills Session 3 recording or have a look at the slides that have been uploaded and work through them. We do expect you to do this at a Level 3 level, so we expect you to know what you're allowed to do and what not and what the expectations are and how to reference properly. And this should help you to understand that. If you have any questions about this, again, please talk to your tutor. This is how AI is referenced, but as I said, it's in the Study Skills Session. So final tips and tricks, choose a project that allows you to show off your skills, something that you've really enjoyed throughout your studies or your specialism. Spend time creating a plan, really put time into plans and tasks and, you know, planning out your project, what you're going to do, which will help you feel more organized and not so lost in this module, if you have a plan that you can stick to and that can be refined over time. And, you know, go out and read and do some research as well. It's a skill that will always come in handy. Use the OU Library, use Google Scholar and read up on these things to expand your mind and your horizon so you can show that you are expanding your skills and develop your skills and knowledge throughout the project. If needed, ask for an extension. But as I said, be reasonable. If you have some issue going on or something happens, an extension should never be a problem. Write your TMA and don't worry about the marks. TMA1 really is about the feedback. It's not about those 5% to the overall result. It means nothing. You know, it really doesn't factor into it at the end of the day. And don't worry about the marks. You know, it's the feedback that counts. So try and do a good job and then really read the feedback and then reach out to a tutor and discuss the feedback and believe in yourself. You know, you can do this. This is absolutely not rocket science. This is pretty straightforward. You just need to, you know, follow the steps that I or Jim and I have tried to give you tonight, the help, and I'm quite sure you will be able to do this successfully. And with that, thank you so much for listening to me and for staying on until we have finished. And thanks, Jim, so much for taking care of the chat because I saw it's been quite busy. So is there anything that you would like to raise? That was no problem, Petra. There was one last question there. It was typed by Matthew, and I was a little unclear as to what the question meant. Can much of the project proposal be used in TMA01? My sense of TMA01 is that it is your project proposal. This is what you're proposing for your project. I think Matthew might be referring to what was posted in the project forum. Okay. Yeah. Right. The project idea forum. Yeah. He might be talking about that. So I've had a couple of emails from my students, and I would usually say is you can take that. First of all, I checked with them that that is still the one. Okay. The proposal that I had to send to my tutor and that he had to agree. Yes. So you expand on that. The proposal that I sent to my tutor and he had to agree. Yes. Colin, does the TMA grow into TMA02? Yes. That is exactly what it does. You expand on with changes and improvement and incorporating the feedback. You write TMA01, and you get the feedback, and you do your project work, and you expand your content, and then you add on to that to make small changes wherever required. But basically, you start with this as the basis, and you build on it. So it's iterative. It goes on and on and on until you get the EMA. The EMA is 10,000 words, but you're not writing 10,000 words because you start with TMA01 with 2,000 words, then you have 3,000, then you have 5,000, then you have 10. So you're only writing a few thousand words each time or make small changes, corrections, and stuff like that. Okay. Now, Krasimir, what you mean I already sent it? If your tutor said it's great, then that's a great foundation for TMA01, but TMA01 is a more formal and more expanded thing unless you already submitted TMA01, which I don't think is the case. Okay. So thank you. I'm going to stop the recording. That was it. I knew I'd forgotten something.
