
I'll be listening to this somewhere in the morning. So hello anyway, and happy new year. Yeah, so software matters. I suppose it matters, as you know, because everything we do now is run by it. But also it matters because it's changing people's lives. And so what I would like to talk to you about in the next 45 minutes or so is ways in which you can participate in changing people's lives. Because I think you're in probably one of the most important disciplines that you can study at a university. And of course, I'm very biased. But hopefully, you will agree with me that a lot of what we do these days is mediated by software, is reflected in software. And if we engineer it correctly, we can change the way we live our lives. So the project course, TM470, is your chance to think about how you could start building systems, building software that starts to affect people's lives. But it's also, of course, a way of bringing together everything that you've studied over the last x number of months or years. And to try and see if you can apply it in a way that brings and applies your learning, but also gives you a taste for what it might mean to work in the software profession. And I call it software profession very generally. It could be engineering software. But it could also be software that you could be working in disciplines on the periphery of software development and software engineering, which also have an impact on what software is built by others. So I think it's very important to understand that even though I'm going to talk about how to build software, actually, society now is increasingly also using software in ways that demand software is built on the fly, for example, or very, very quickly. An engineer might not be the only person who actually creates that software. So one of the things that I often have and I debate with my colleagues is whether the word software engineering now is actually relevant to what we actually do. Because what we are often doing is also social engineering. Social engineering has a very mixed meaning. Some people think of it as very undesirable because it's often associated with things like security breaches. Someone tricked you into doing something or it's getting you addicted to a particular piece of software and it's changing your lives to the negative. And I think it does have that meaning. But what I'd also like to suggest over the next 45 minutes or so is that if you think quite deliberately about what software you're going to build and what it is going to be used for, then you can also participate in that engineering deliberately as opposed to accidentally suffer its consequences. Now, this might not be what you registered to do when you studied a computing degree, but actually, increasingly, the software that we build matters and it matters to how people live their lives. So I'm actually a software engineer. I'm just trying to go to the next slide. I'm actually a software engineer, but I started my background being a hardware engineer. So I sort of studied a lot of electronics and I even built wooden bridges and spent some time studying aerospace tunnels, wind tunnels and things like that. So my sense of engineering very much came from the physical world. But I discovered that actually I really liked the software side of things. I liked the way that the software was able to manipulate how the hardware operated. So I did a master's, which I thought was a software master's, but turned out to be actually a mathematics master's because I missed the word foundations. The foundations of advanced information technology means logic and mathematics, the underpinnings of what software is about. But what it really made me understand is that also software is a mathematical or software programs are mathematical objects and that we need to think about them sometimes in that way. And so I thought, ooh, this is interesting, but I don't want to be a mathematician. I actually want to build stuff. So I then did a PhD after spending some time in industry. I then decided to do a PhD in how we can build this mathematical artifact using engineering principles. And when I did my PhD, as you can see, it was quite some time ago, that was quite unusual to actually think of a mathematical object as something that you could engineer. But over the next 30 or so years, what has happened is that software engineering has become a thing. It is, people recognize that you can actually build software in a way that is structured, that follows a particular process, that has attributes like qualities that you might care about, and it has customers and so on. And so increasingly now, software engineering is a term that everybody uses and understands, but, and the notion of engineering software is become, people have become much more comfortable. And so, although I've spent a lot of my time in academia, I've also spent some of my time working with companies who want to engineer software, to build software so that they can actually either manipulate hardware or manipulate physical systems, but also the deliver system that change people's organizations, things like enterprise systems that pays your salary if you're in a job or calculates your taxes and so on. These are systems that are entirely sitting on your desktop, but they also change the way you might live your life and how you spend the 30th of January before the tax deadline, for example, how easy they are to use and what they do is actually very much affecting So I've increasingly become, started thinking that engineering is also not just about the construction and the building of software. It's also about trying to look at the world outside the software, where these requirements come from, what you want, how you want to achieve them. And then when you place them back in the environment, how they change people's lives. And that is a cycle that has become more common now in software development. And if anything, it's increasingly, people are now thinking much more about the impact of software in society as opposed to how it actually runs on the machine. And if you follow a lot of the AI literature that's been coming out over the last two or three years, you'll probably recognize that in fact, generating at least some aspects of a system through software has become semi-automated. And actually it's about how we think about what we build that actually really, really matters. And so this is a phrase that I use, software without boundaries, to capture what I think is the current state of software. It used to be that you had to think really hard about framing the software that you build with certain boundaries. You say, this is what's in the system and this is what's out of the system. But actually, when you deliver a piece of software, it is deeply embedded in how we live our lives. It might change the way we live our lives and we might decide to change the way we build the system in order to make that change. And so then the question is, as software engineers, do you want to be focused only on building that software or do you want to go and be much more reflective and be participants in the way society is going to evolve? A lot of computer science students who join computing degrees are often interested in the construction of programs and software. And I'd like to argue with you over the next half an hour or so that actually you need to perhaps reframe your thinking and reframe the way you think about this project that you're about to embark on and think about its actual impact on some particular problem or some particular way people are conducting some aspect of their lives. And I think if you think about it that way, you start recognizing how important this project that you're doing is and that if you can amplify it in your professional life afterwards, you can actually really make a difference. One thing that happens when you start thinking about the world around software is that it might have good impact or sort of good effects and bad effects. And so the idea of responsible software engineering is actually quite fundamental to all of this. And responsibility is something that, well, so it's been debated by philosophers and ethicists for many, many years, but at a very simple level, it somehow means that the software you build has to reflect some values you care about, some things that you think are important. So for example, if you think that fairness in the way you distribute some money is important, and your software system is a way of calculating how money is going to be distributed, then understanding those values and understanding what fairness means is actually quite an important component of the software that you build. And it is often the case that software engineers and software engineering managers don't think or don't spend a lot of time reflecting on responsibility requirements. So one of the things that I hope I can add to the whole discussion about how you specify a project is to actually think about what are the possible ethical, moral value implications of building a piece of software, whether it's determining what product is delivered and to whom, on whether it calculates your taxes and so on. Now, obviously, sometimes there are very clear specifications about what a piece of software should do, but I think it's quite important that you as software engineers or people who are putting together projects or systems, that you stop and ask, am I being asked to do something that is immoral, unethical, that contravenes some of the values that I live by? And I think increasingly, with AI systems that are much more black boxes in the way that they are built and the way are constructed, it's important for engineers to hold a flag of responsibility to actually reflect on what it is that they're being asked to build. And there's a lot of interesting research that shows that a lot of students over the years, when asked by their tutor to perhaps build a system X or Y, very few of them ask, is it legal to build this? Is it ethical to build this? Is it moral to build this? And would I build this for my family versus someone else? And often there are lots of political, social pressures, financial pressures, why you may or may not build certain systems. And so I'd like you to at least reflect when you think about the projects that you're going to build, what it means to the society and to the users who might use it. Now, I spent a lot of time on this and possibly more than I did last year, because increasingly we are seeing software systems that are having a huge impact on the way we live our lives. And it's important that as computing professionals, as software professionals and practitioners, we are part of the conversation when we are building these kinds of systems. I'm going to pause a little bit after that sort of sweeping introduction and see if anyone would like to ask any questions or if Alexis has picked up. There's a bit of discussion. I mean, we do ask everyone to think about LSEPI, the legal, social, ethical and professional issues of what we do. And I think it's really important to approach this with, in a sense, a clear mind and some honesty. And rather than just sort of regarding it as yet another hoop to jump through, recognize that it underpins the responsibility that we have to other people, to, I think, not do harm is the way I would approach that. Just looking. Yeah. I think Anselmo was saying that a critical view of the LSEPI components permeate the whole project from the first EME to the EME. And then the other element about ethics, the involvement of human participants in the project and considerations about data protection. So not just humans at hazard, also other sentient beings. And I think even plants, unsurprisingly, because if we do things that impact the living world, it can have unexpected consequences. So it's actually, it's very, very broad. Absolutely. No, I think that's really helpful, Alexis. I think responsibility is not just about people, it's about species, our relationship to them and our relationship to the environment and a system that is going to mess up the environment or have an impact on other beings is clearly all within the scope of that. And I think, as you said, it shouldn't just be a tick-box exercise. And then the question is, how does one incorporate it in how we build the system? But also, we might also think of systems that are particularly addressing ethical concerns as the final outcome. So for example, building systems that have a social purpose, for example, is quite important. Not all systems have to be calculations to calculate, to do some mathematical calculations or to operate or control a vehicle or something like that. They could actually have, it broadens the scope of what you could potentially do in your project. I wonder if I can maybe, just to maybe give you the technical sort of evolution of how we got here. And when I started as a, oops, let me see. When I started as a software engineer, I think the key was how to engineer software, how to structure it, how to put it together in pieces that could be maintained, how you could evolve it. And increasingly, I sort of started working in a field called requirements engineering or requirements analysis, where we started asking questions, well, what software should we engineer? Because actually understanding what you want to engineer will determine how you engineer it. But actually, increasingly now, the questions that software engineers have to answer is what kind of world do we want? Which is, of course, enabled, supported, reflected by software. And this is why I'm mentioning all these things. So how can we now change the narrative around how we build software systems by asking about the kind of world that we want? And when you are thinking about how to specify the project that you are going to work on over the coming months, do think about what is the place of this piece of software or this program or this project in the way people might be living their lives? And asking the question, is this the kind of software we want to build? Now, it may be that many of you won't have such controversial software to build, but I think it's something that is a good habit to get into to actually make sure that this is the overriding question that you're involved in. And if you're looking for employment in organizations to actually ask yourself, is this the kind of organization that would ask these kinds of questions? Is this the kind of organization that I want to work for or work with? I know it's not always easy to make that selection in jobs. Sometimes you don't have that many choices, but at least if you have a choice, at least you think about it in those terms. Because the way you live your life and the world you want are very connected, right? So, if you go down to sort of the path of building systems that are going to be addictive, for example, or that are going to harm people, then your requirements and then the way you build those systems is going to, yeah, it'll be affected by that context. And if you choose a particular, another path in which you decide, I want to build systems that have these particular social purpose or social goals, then that might also affect how you build your systems. And again, you might not have these choices to make, but if you do, or if you are in a position of influence, and that's quite important. And what is good and what is bad is something that has been debated over many, many years. You know, some people, and I like this quote from Dickens because actually, you know, this is over 200 years ago. And I think, oh, is it over time? Yeah, well, no, not quite, but. Sorry, my math is, I don't have a calculator with me, but yeah, people have always felt that there's good and bad in the world. And then some, depending on your perspective, the way you live your life is affected by your perspective on the world. And I've been thinking about this in terms of sort of technology and software. There are those people who think that the climate apocalypse is upon us and the world is going to be destroyed by climate change and that we're going to, a lot of us are going to die from disease pandemics. Our privacy is disappearing because of technology. We don't no longer sort of, our sociality is being reduced by the technology that we're building and the machines are going to take over everything that we do. And that is one extreme perspective of the world as some people see it. On the other hand, there's a lot of people, and Steven Pinker being a famous linguist talks about life being never been so good. You know, healthcare is probably, well, it is as good as it's ever been. People are living longer. As a world, people are richer and machines are helping us with all sorts of stuff and the way we live our lives. And depending on your perspective, you could end up thinking about these ethical and moral questions and the software that you build in very, very different ways. And so I always encourage people when faced with a context in which they're going to build a system to look at the utopian and dystopian, the positive and the negative ways in which that software might be used or how it might be perceived. Because often these systems succeed or fail or are perceived as successes or failures depending on your perspective and how you view them and where you come from. So from a philosophical standpoint. So the human and machines relationship, and I sort of, I will get to software eventually, I suppose, but I think in general machines, I like this diagram because it's sort of very, very visual, but of course, machines can be software machines. They don't have to be robotic arms, but the relationship is sometimes you're building software that somehow has to, or that has to control or adapt to human behavior. And so it has to be aware and sense and understand the world around it and be able to somehow live in equilibrium or in some kind of balance with a human. There are other views of software as something that controls the machine. We won't talk about the other way around for now, but it's more about writing software systems that control the physical world. So the robotic arm and the human is in control. And sometimes, and increasingly now we're talking about machines that there are multiple machines that you have to deal with. And you have to be able to collaborate with them to achieve your particular goals. So you might use your telephone for something, your laptop for something else, your car for something else. Each of these machines fits in your life in a particular way of living in your life. Some people might decide to remove the car from their life and then they maybe use other forms of transport or sit at home and interact using sort of online discussion and that might have an impact on the environment. So how you configure the human and the machine is really quite an important perspective that you need to think about when you're building software systems. But of course, it's not just one human. There are many humans, many people, many sentient beings that you have to deal with. And there is no one human with one set of requirements. You're often having to deal with a whole range of diverse individuals. So you need to decide, am I designing a machine for the many or am I designing it for a representative sample of people? Or can we be much more nuanced about it? Maybe we have some notion of groups and there are certain groups that we need to deal with. The different groups have different requirements but they also have relationships. So suddenly you're thinking about software is about understanding people and their relationships. Am I building software for a family versus an organization? For both, for people in my football club. And you start thinking about the different possible constituencies of users and people that you might be dealing with. And that's yet another dimension you need to think about when you're thinking about developing software systems. Because it's almost a blank, unlike a lot of hardware systems, software is really completely flexible. You can decide what it is that you want to build. If you're building a car, then it's probably some physical constraints about what you can use a car for. Although of course, you might decide you want to build a car for work and a car for leisure or a car for racing and so on. But in general, software gives you a blank piece of paper to think about and to think about how you might serve your constituencies. So we need to, and in order to do that, you need to understand society with all the structures and the people and their relationships. One piece of software that works in one society might not be as attractive or usable or useful for another society. And so often people build systems that assume a certain particular societal behavior and end up either discriminating against or maybe not having a big enough market for the software systems that they build. So again, sort of understanding that structured relationship is quite important between people. And because people don't actually want software systems, they don't want technology, they don't want software. What they want is different ways of working, different ways of interacting, different ways of living. Fundamentally, if you ask somebody what they want, if you push them, if they know you're a software engineer and you ask the question in a very limited way, you could end up building a piece of software that they tell you. But actually, if you dig a little bit deeper and you do your requirements a little bit more in a more goal-oriented way, then you're much more likely to get deeper and better requirements about what people want to achieve from software rather than just the software itself. So changing the way you talk to your potential customers or users or stakeholders actually really matters. So that was like a whirlwind philosophical introduction to what I think sort of is the changing nature or the changing face of software and its role in society. And it's really a massively exciting time to be here, of course, I mean, this is not, I don't want this to be like a dilemma for you. It's actually quite exciting to be able to be participating in these kinds of discussions. And you're at the beginning of your project at the moment. And so this is the time when you have the most flexibility in trying to, in deciding, you know, where will my project sit in the world that I want to affect in the society that I want to affect? So I'll pause again now to see if, I've seen the chat sort of moving up and down a little bit there. Is there anything that someone would like to, ask or comment on? People have been making very good points about what you've been discussing. I think that everything you've said, we also encourage people to think about, not just for software projects, but for all types of projects. The aspects of, you know, what are the requirements? What are the impacts? What are the possible adverse impacts? And I mean, the real importance of digging deep and thinking about what is necessary and what isn't. And Pablo is saying, are we required to stick to the software or can projects be on something else? Yes, Pablo, they can be on something else. Many people do software projects, but, you know, there are other types of projects, but a lot of the general points that Bashar is making about any kind of development would apply to things other than software, I think. They have a broader application. I mean, maybe it's worth saying though, of course, that software now is pretty much, it's hard to think of building something, you know, having a project that has no software in it, either as in terms of how it impacts the way your project is going to proceed or whether you're building it or not. So it doesn't have to be just building software. It could be about using software. And it'd be interesting to, I think, and I see a comment there from Chris who says the projects have to have a computing component. So- I absolutely do, yes. And computing is, again, sort of a broader than software, I suppose, and software being, if you think of it as a set of programs to achieve a particular purpose, computing can be a little bit more broad in terms of it might be about the nature of the computation. It could be about algorithms. It could be about ways of using machine learning to do some particular task and so on. So it's not just about building stuff, but I suppose, you know, my bias here is that we are in a place in the development of the computing discipline where we can affect not just the construction of these software systems, but actually affect people's lives. So I might have gone a little bit overboard on giving general comments about technology and project, but actually software here is quite critical, I think, in, well, in computing. Let me look for such a technical systems. Marie, so you're on a cybersecurity course, but doing TM352 as one of your modules, could you do a software project not directly related to cyber? I think if you're doing R60, you do have to have an element of cybersecurity in your project to meet the NCSC, National Cybersecurity Center requirements. But having said that, you could use both TM352, you know, as well as one of your cyber modules and exploit both in a project if that interests you. Thank you. Okay, somebody else is asking, say, is it especially important to address legal, regulatory, statutory repercussions? Absolutely. Yeah, and there's all sorts of interesting projects on, for example, building systems that check compliance or learn how to, you know, that they actually learn and adapt to new compliance regulations. A lot of computer systems, software systems these days are living in quite a volatile environment. So for example, in AI, there's a new AI Act, the European Union AI Act, and it's continuously being updated and revised and tweaked. So we are increasingly being asked as software professionals to build software systems that comply with those regulations while these regulations are changing all the time. So it's really interesting to think about how does one build systems that are compliant, but also how does one adapt systems for compliance? And so, you know, some potential project ideas there. Okay, so Pavlo is saying, I'm on TM356. Wanted to base my project around the design and usability research of what we produce on TM356. As there are lots of interesting details, you believe you could include, it's interesting. Yeah, I mean, usability, the software systems and their usability is a really interesting area for projects because there are many systems that we're building now that maybe haven't been built before. So how people react to them is a really interesting research exercise. So building studies that try and understand people's, the way people use technology in different contexts is really quite interesting. So you might decide to build a really interesting system and you want to check its usability, but maybe it means interesting to check its usability with hostile users versus friendly users, for example. And then, you know, you can start exploring different facets of usability that way. I'm just reading that. And just to comment on the cyber security and so on. So, you know, cyber security is one of those really interesting topics where, so you want to try and prevent malice and bad behavior and so on. So how does your system behave when people are friendly and supportive and helpful versus how do you build systems when the users are potentially malicious or are trying to subvert it? So, yeah, I don't know. I should probably, if the project focuses on. Yeah. Yeah, so I think just Chris is giving some really helpful feedback there to some of the questions. I'm going to continue if that's okay, Alexis. And just, if you keep an eye on particular questions, I'm happy to answer them. I mean, TM417 in particular, maybe this is stuff that Alexis and others are better placed to speak about. But for me, it's clearly these kinds of projects are an opportunity for you to test, improve and demonstrate what you've learned before so far in your degree. So it's a way of bringing things together and to personalize what you've learned in this project. So it's different people will take different aspects of what they've learned together in a particular way. There's a slight echo sound there. I'm not sure. Could everybody switch their microphone off? Because sometimes if we have a few on, we can get feedback. So if you have a microphone on. Yeah, I think there is a little bit of echo there, but it's okay. And it's also, I mean, opportunity to sort of, as I said at length, that you can explore if what you've learned is actually going to be effective when you go out and change the world when you're done. But I think the thing that for me is the most important in many ways, because it drives it all is that you have to enjoy yourself. You know, this is what your degree is all about is bringing it all together, doing something that is impactful and effective. And I think you really should try and enjoy it and don't let it stress you out. Actually just treat it as something that's really wonderful and interesting. And there's a huge amount of support around the whole system of these projects. So, you know, it's really, really, should I say this? It's very hard to fail if you put in the effort, you were bringing things together, but Alexis, now it's your turn. May I interrupt and say something? When you do a final year project in a degree, you don't realize until much later that it's probably the one time in your life that you will be able to spend an extended period of time working on something that you choose to work on. You don't need to worry about whether it's going to be profitable or not. It is an opportunity to indulge yourself. Once you have finished your degree, if you go on and do a master's or a doctorate, the chances are you will be working on something that somebody else has chosen. Sort of working, you know, it's, I don't think there are that many jobs around for talented inventors of blue sky thinking. Or maybe there are places like Google, I don't know. But I suppose the point I'm trying to make is, this is a really unique opportunity to be selfish and do something that you enjoy and, you know, give it everything you've got. And it's an opportunity to show us just how brilliant you are and how good you are at the work you do. That's my story. And I hope that everybody takes that away. Thank God. And you're the driver of the project. So it's nobody really telling you what to do, except in the most sort of high level structural sense. You know, these are the things that you need to have in place to pass. But actually you choose the problem, but you have to also choose it very carefully and make sure that there is a problem that you are trying to solve. But you can choose that problem. You know, I think it should be for this particular, I think project, it should have some kind of practical context. I mean, I suppose it could be a mathematical project, but in some sense, it still has to be quite practical. So try and understand the practical context in which that problem sits. It has to have, you know, you are going to be proposing a solution either using or building some computing and or IT that, you know, as Chris said earlier, you know, there has to be some computing component in it. It also is a demonstration that you can plan and evaluate and revise a piece of work. You know, this is not a one-shot exam paper that you sit. You think about it, you plan it, you understand how you're going to understand, you're going to plan how you're going to succeed or fail and how to recognize if you've succeeded or failed. And by fail, I don't mean that you failed the project, but that a particular idea that you wanted to try and explore as feasibility, for example, might not be successful. And that could be an interesting result that if you construct it carefully and you understand what it is that you're evaluating. But also if you leave some time for revision, then you can discover something, see that it doesn't work and then revise and go back, but have that in your plan. So it's a chance for you to think about applied computing in a way that is different from the kind of other coursework or exams that you might sit. And it's also, so as I said at the beginning, it's basically using material that you've already studied and modules that you've covered. So you can actually have, you don't have to sort of be innovative in the kind of computing. So if you never studied quantum computing, you don't have to do a quantum computing project. You can just use some of the material you learned in previous modules. It can be research, but it doesn't have to be pure research. It's normally an extension and application of what you've learned. I think that's the key. I mean, I think there are very occasionally publishable results from these kinds of projects, but it doesn't have to be, it just has to be something that's quite personal and that extends and applies what you've learned. I think the requirements for this project is actually the first TMA, if I'm not mistaken. Essentially the first TMA is your proposal. So we ask you to think about all the different aspects of the project and start putting your ideas down in writing. And the actual action of writing something often helps you to clarify your thoughts so really it's a proposal. We ask you to sketch out what your problem is, why it's a problem, what impact a solution might have, all the things that Vishal's been talking about. We ask you to think in a very preliminary way about what doing the project might involve you in doing. And then to sort of think a little bit about, do you actually know everything you need to know in order to solve your problem? Are there new things you need to learn? Are there new skills you need to develop? Will you be dependent on other people? Will you need to do some requirements analysis by having meetings with other people? So in a sense, it's a bit like, if I wanted to go from where I live in Cornwall to Edinburgh and I was going to drive, it might take me two or three days, but I wouldn't attempt to get a detailed roadmap in the first instance. I think, well, I head for Exeter, then I'll probably head for Bristol, then I'll probably head for Reading, then I'll probably head for London, try and pick up one of the roads going north, the M1, that's a good one. So I kind of have a very broad picture of my direction of travel, and I'm always just thinking, how long is it going to take me? Two or three days, what am I going to need? Well, I'll need a flask of tea for a start, but I'll probably also need a couple of hotels on the way. So the analogy I'm trying to describe is, you can't in the first three or four weeks of your project, know exactly everything that you need to know in order to be able to do it, but you can try and get a broad brush picture with milestones, and think about what components your project might need. And putting all of this down in writing, in a sense, is your project proposal. And there's also the important question of ethics. We ask you to start thinking about that right from day one. And, you know, so it sounds daunting, but it isn't daunting. And it's important to get something down, you know, in writing, because until you do that, your poor old tutor can't give you any feedback and any suggestions. Okay, sure, sure, I don't mind. No, and I think what you mentioned, the tutor, I mean, and the tutor is obviously key in all of this. And I think you should probably be talking to your tutor as the first stakeholder in all of this, because they have all that experience and they know if you're panicking about something that it's too early to panic about, then they'll probably reassure you. And they'll also give you some feedback about how you're framing some of the problem. I mean, just to carry on the analogy, I mean, you need to know that you're going to Edinburgh and so that's quite important. Your high-level goal of what you want to achieve is quite important. And you might even realize that there are multiple ways to get there. And so you might realize that there may be roadworks over Christmas. And so I need to look for at least an alternative in case the road is closed. And so you can start doing that, but, you know, you need to understand that you're going to Edinburgh, you've decided you want to drive. So you've understood that there are certain technologies you want to use to get there. And that you might have some options and some obstacles. And these are the kinds of things that help you think about the problem and whether the problem is feasible. And if you find it hard to understand the feasibility questions, then your tutor might help you and say, oh, do you think this is going to be realistic? Is it, you know, if you only have an electric, if you're going to decide that you want to use an electric car, are you sure there's enough charging points and all these kinds of things? And so, yeah. So I think you can speak to many, you should speak to as many people as you can. Obviously your tutor is key. What you can't do is subcontract the project to someone else. That's the only interaction that you shouldn't be having. But other than that, you should talk to people about what they think if this is a, yeah, Jennifer is, I'm just, yeah, disappointed Jennifer there. So, okay. What else did I want to say? Okay, maybe I move to the next slide here. I think I've covered most of the stuff here. Yep. So there are lots of resources, I think. So I'm going to leave these slides available here and you can click on these resources, but the website is a wonderful resource with all kinds of stuff that you can look at. It repeats a lot of what we just said here. In fact, some of what I've said has been derived from that website. So there's lots of resources for you. But again, a conversation with a tutor will also help you if you feel overwhelmed by the amount of material that's there. Is there anything in particular I should say here? I don't think so. Okay. I suppose examples of projects is always quite a good idea because it gives you a sense of what other people have done in the past. So investigating a technology is often an interesting way people look at these projects. And this is quite old-fashioned in the sense as you're investing in a wireless technology, but you could be looking at new AI technologies that are coming through the pipeline or technologies that are not even in the pipeline. They're just sort of research papers and you can decide you want to evaluate it and maybe explore its application and argue why maybe with some recommendations as to why this technology will work in a particular context or won't work in a particular context. These projects tend to, I mean, some of these projects can be quite applied in the sense you can get the technology, apply it onto an example, and then evaluate it literally very practically by using that technology, or you can do it via the literature. I think the key, if you do it through the literature, is that it has to be quite, you need to try and surface some of the computing issues. It's not just a general sort of consultant's high-level policy recommendation document that you've got to engage with the computing technology that underpins it. You can actually develop an actual system to solve a real-world problem. So if you feel that you want to build some app or some software system to help you do some activity at home, maybe help you with your shopping, or then think about that, and you can decide what kind of system you want to develop, what purpose it's going to serve. So this is quite a traditional type of project. You decide something you want to build, perhaps using some technology or techniques that you've not used before or that you've learned in your course. The third one is similar to the first in the sense that it's evaluating the impact of a technology, but it focuses more on the user community itself. For example, how a particular piece of software, for example, might affect a particular group in society who might not be able to access that technology or who have been excluded, for example. Or a piece of technology that is going to be migrated from, say, a particular user group from, say, a desktop to a mobile phone or to a wearable. How might that technology be moved or migrated and what's its impact on either, for example, including or excluding certain user communities? You could do a comparative project, take one system and another system or one approach and another approach, one type of interface and another type of interface, and compare the two. That way you understand the intricacies of both those technologies and you start perhaps producing the same kind of design guidelines or recommendations about how to design systems for different communities by comparing two different ones or it doesn't have to be two, it could be more, of course, depending on what that might be. And some of the projects that have been going on now for years is how to develop a database or a web interface for a database for a particular use in a systematic way. So, for example, if I was going to create an alternative student interaction system with the Open University for a particular purpose, let's say, for example, giving these online lectures, would I, you know, how would I build this, you know, or how would I change what is already there in a systematic way and extend it? Would I need to, you know, how would I redesign the database or the user interface or the web interface so that I can access the system? So these are examples and there are more examples, again, on the website of previous projects. Let me see. Some tips about how you identify your project. So by now you probably know what you like and what you dislike or what you're good at and what you're not good at. So perhaps think about your strengths and what you think you're particularly talented at. Some people like to play to their strengths. Some people try to strengthen what they're not strong at. So it depends how adventurous you want to be. But generally, if you want to be safe, you play to your strengths. If you're very analytical or mathematical, you go with one type of project. If you like building stuff or evaluating stuff, then you choose projects accordingly. But you have to build in some kind of challenge, something that you think maybe
is not so straightforward because you end up not even pushing yourself and the project actually is becomes quite pedestrian and maybe perhaps not as interesting to others to read and use. Imagine some kind of client or imagine some kind of user. So a client is sort of maybe the word client is normally associated with someone who might pay for the system but you could also think of other stakeholders like users or people who are going to be affected by the system who are not its users. So you start thinking of the different stakeholders. I mean for me I put clients because in a sense it's in a professional setting they are the people who might commission the system or the software that you want to build and study. So think about who these stakeholders are and why they might want to pay for what you're building and by pay it could be just that they might want to invest their time in it. Have some academic objectives. So this is part of your degree so think about not just building a product for a market but to investigate something or to develop a system to explore something. I guess you probably by now understand what academic objectives look like but for me I like to always think of them in three pieces. So to do X in order to achieve Y by doing Z. So you think what am I going to do? I'm going to do something. Why am I doing it in order to achieve something and how am I going to do it by doing Z? And then your objective is the first bit to do X. In order to achieve Y is the motivation for doing that objective and the by doing Z is the way you're going to build it, the way you're going to implement the work plan. But if you think about this little sandwich of to do X in order to achieve Y by doing Z it can help you formulate the objectives that you have for your project. And how will you know that you have achieved that objective? It's something you really need to think. So these objectives have to be testable, measurable. You will have some success criteria that will allow you to determine if by the end of the project you've succeeded or not. So if Alexis reaches Edinburgh she'll know she has succeeded because her objective was to get there. If she ends up somewhere else she knows that the objective has not been met. And so you can as much as possible try and make those objectives very precise so that you unambiguously are able to see if you've succeeded. But of course that's not always very easy because sometimes if you're exploring a new technology, so in which case then you need to have phrase your objectives differently. It's not about reaching Edinburgh, it's by it's about exploring the landscape from south to the north of the UK. If you phrase it that way then by navigating the UK from south to north you will have achieved your objective, you didn't have to get to Edinburgh. So you have to change your success criteria depending on what you think is feasible and what's doable. And we've already talked about thinking about your responsibility when you build these things and being inclusive about who might participate. But also if you think you can't be inclusive, understanding who you are excluding and actually just being aware of that is also quite important. Maybe the decision might not be yours to do to be exclusive but at least you're aware of it. And I've said this before, I'll say this again, have fun. Okay, so another pause maybe. I don't know, I've seen some text but I don't know if it's worth pausing here. Is there anything people would like me to answer about? I don't think there's other technologies, principles. Alexis is answering some of these questions as we go along. So Anne Selma and Chris and other people are chipping in. I think a lot of people have already got some really good ideas for projects which is wonderful. If you don't already have an idea or a good idea, don't worry about it. You've still got lots of time to use the project ideas forum. When you start your project work, write at the very beginning. And Selma's mentioned be nice to your tutor when they write and introduce themselves. But start talking with your tutor and telling them about your ideas as soon as possible or your lack of ideas as soon as possible. Because your tutor will want to help you sort of shape your project ideas so that you are as successful as possible. So to make sure that you're taking the right sort of approach so you succeed and you get a really brilliant grade at the end of it. So it is important to be in touch with your tutor. And I'm really pleased that there are so many ideas already. A few people have asked when do tutors get assigned? In the next one to two weeks. It's in progress at the moment. So in terms of ideas, I mean, I think there are just so many ways in which computing can now be used or abused that it's really, I think you'll probably find that once you get your head around it and talk to people and look at various resources, there'll be lots and lots of ideas. The question is how to narrow them down to something that you want to do and that you can do. And that has all the sort of the characteristics of a good project. But one thing I thought I would do in this little last part of the presentation is just to say that the Open University has a very active software engineering design research group, which has had lots of projects over the years. So it covers multiple areas within software engineering. So there's a little bit of advertising, but actually, you know, it's also, I think, possibly a resource for you is, you know, have a look at the Computing and Communication School's website. You know, there are projects on automated software engineering, how to do software engineering activity using machine learning tools, say, for example, how to do better requirements engineering, how to build adaptive systems, autonomous systems, how to do empirical studies and user experiences. These are different areas where there's a lot of research expertise in the department and the school. And so if you end up browsing the website and looking at various people's publications, you'll end up seeing examples within those papers of really interesting projects that people have done that might also inspire you. Because almost all research papers you read will probably have a section at the end that says future work or why something doesn't work very well. And so, you know, those are trigger phrases for you to think about. Oh, well, maybe I could look at this and maybe try this again, or I don't believe that's an interesting result. Do you think I can replicate it using something else that I, maybe a new programming language, or maybe if I did this slightly differently with a different user interface, something might work? And so the actual technical disciplines can help you choose projects. The other thing that can help you is the application domain. So what do you apply computing to? So you can do, you know, there's many, everything in the world basically is an application domain for software these days. But aeronautics and aerospace is what, you know, in our group, we do quite a lot of work on aerospace and aeronautics. So, for example, that doesn't mean airplanes only, it could mean drones, the use of drones or the misuse of drones, for example. Health and well-being is a big one, of course, you know. So the role of technology and computer software to help us live healthier, happier lives, for example. On the other side, you know, people who are criminal or who misuse technology, you can have applications in policing or forensics to try and discover why something bad happened and who did it. There's lots of interesting projects in that space. Generally, security and privacy are interesting ones. You know, as new technologies come on board, what are the security implications? Can we assess the security feasibility of a new technology? So we have done a lot of research in the group on that. And then, of course, things like sustainability and the environment and both the implications of what we build on the environment, but also building software systems that help us manage the environment better. So, for example, understanding the consequences of human behavior, not just computing systems, but just human behavior in general on the environment. So there's all sorts of interesting application areas that can trigger you. And it might be a passion you have in a particular application domain. If you're interested in diabetes and you want to understand how you can build stuff, we have a lot of research in that space or loneliness. If it's a social issue, for example, how do you deal with loneliness? And how do you build social apps that maybe can help with that? All kinds of really interesting stuff you can potentially look at. And it's a slightly out of date set of pictures of people in the group. But each of these people, if you go and visit their websites, you might get a sense of the kinds of things that they are working on that might inspire you and you might use them as reference for one aspect of your project. And to get examples, application domains, emergency response or cardiac arrest monitoring tools or all kinds of interesting stuff, shopping ethically and things like that. So there's lots of good examples if you visit people's websites. And the reason this might be interesting is that you never know. It could be that your project ends up being picked up or is interesting to one of these people who can then talk to you about the project as well. You have access to some experts in that space. Let me see. Okay, I've sort of overrun a little bit here ahead of myself. But health care, as I said, is one of the topics and we have lots of different projects in that application domain, policing. One thing that might be interesting, for example, is that the Open University for the last year and a half, two years, has set up a centre called the Centre for the Protection of Women Online and Online Harassment, Online Bullying and things like that. And so it's a socially really important problem. There's a lot of research coming from the social sciences that brings technology and the social sciences together. Can you build tools or understand and evaluate tools or technologies that are either exacerbating some of these problems or that could be used to intervene and to protect? There's lots of projects on that centre's website that could help you. Similarly, with the one on policing, the one before it, there's lots of interesting projects on tools for policing and forensics and for tampering if you're more interested in technical aspects of that policing domain. I already mentioned drones, I think. But yeah, I think drones are a really interesting one. I mean, sadly, there are some nice scenarios in which you use them very harmlessly to deliver your Amazon parcels, but you could also use them to deliver bombs. So there's some interesting ethical questions about how you use that technology and who's in charge of that drone and how you manage it and understand infringements on airspace and interaction with airports and so on. And yeah, I've mentioned supply chains are really interesting. Increasingly, the products and things that we buy and consume move all over the world from one place to the next. And sometimes they're manufactured and one bit is manufactured in one country, another bit is manufactured in another country. Two different sets of regulations might apply in different places. How do you do compliance checking as products move in the supply chain? And is it still compliant when it arrives in the UK, for example? And so there's interesting monitoring research on understanding supply chains, legal stuff, how you control the physical construction of stuff and pieces in different places. So I think digital twins are often used. They're a digital dashboard that allows you to monitor manufacturing processes and maybe you could sort of evaluate digital twins platforms and to see if they're effective for answering some of those questions I asked. I talked about social health. We have some really interesting research on loneliness, on kindness, on gratitude. What does it mean for... I mean, I started the talk today talking about the double-sided aspects of social engineering, social engineering often being looked at very negatively. But of course, social engineering could be quite positive if you're trying to promote values that you care about, like gratitude or kindness. So you might want to have a little bit of a think about maybe your project can address some of these things. And obviously, things like the environment and how we manage waste and so on are interesting application areas. So these are application domains and technologies that might inspire you to choose projects. Obviously, adaptation and autonomy now is very topical in autonomous vehicles and autonomous this and that. All kinds of systems are autonomously making decisions on our behalf. Are they secure? How do we work with them collaboratively? Are they making mistakes and being abused? Are they usable? All these kinds of projects we have in the school address different aspects of adaptation and autonomy that you might choose projects in that space. Machine learning, I managed to go through most of the talk without talking about it too much. But it's a huge amount of interesting projects you can do these days with LLMs and understanding the consequences of large language models. How can you use them responsibly? How could you use them within your software engineering processes responsibly? If you're going to get them to generate some code for you, can you say anything about the assurance of the code that you produce? Is it going to be fair? Is it going to exclude people? Again, we have lots of projects in this area that you could find interesting. And so I'm bombarding you with all sorts of ideas. And this might be not very relevant to everyone, but there's so many ideas you could play around with. If you're interested in languages and the technical aspects of software architecture, then what does it mean to have new architectures that are safe and comply with the law, that have traceability and accountability? We have expertise in a relatively newer language called Rust, for example, that a lot of people are saying is a good language for building a lot of safety-critical systems. So you might want to look at programming, new programming languages. And finally, we have a lot of expertise in the school on doing empirical work, you know, how you study people and how you study systems. And we've looked at it at security and resilience and so on and trying to understand the impact of the technology that we build and how we can improve it. And you could quite easily do a really interesting empirical project studying a particular way of working or a particular technology in computing. And there's lots of papers in this space that you could look at for inspiration. So that was a bombarding there with potential. Not necessarily just ideas, but areas for ideas. So finally, the thing in the end is you have to own it. This is your project. You drive it. You own it. It's yours. And that's the beauty of this thing. Nobody's going to chase you and say, well, you know, can you do a project in this other area that I prefer? You own this project. But you need to frame it. You need to, as we said in this first TMA, you start thinking about what's in scope, what's not in scope. Start thinking about the possible areas that you're not going to tackle perhaps is maybe a good exercise so that you know, so that you don't over-specify what you might do or get. Yeah. So I guess that's what I want to say. Try and build something if you can. It's quite satisfying. It could be building a study or building a piece of software or a system. But think constructively about how you're going to take this problem and build a solution. I mean, so build it is sort of a general term that says, you know, you construct a solution to the problem that you frame. But it's not just building. You have to be reflective. And one of the key things about this project is that you don't just build stuff and then say, here it is. It works. You have to reflect. You have to analyze how well does it work? Was it successful? Is it useful? All these kinds of reflective questions are going to be a hugely important chapter in your project dissertation. So I'll see that you've done something. Or sorry, I'll see. Your tutors will see that you've done something. But they will also want to see that you reflected on what you built and that you've grown and learned from that experience of building something. I said enjoy it. And you really should. So thank you very much. And I hope I didn't talk too much and it was useful. Thank you. Thank you very, very much indeed. That was a really enjoyable and entertaining talk. Does anyone, thank you for the clapping over there. So that's brilliant. Would anybody like to switch their mic on and ask a question? We're getting lots of thank yous. Lots of welcomes from me. I think people, I noticed a few messages in the chat from people saying they're quite anxious. They haven't managed to come up with an idea yet. OK. There are resources there for you. There's the Project Ideas Forum. There are also pages on the module VLE where we make some suggestions. There are all the suggestions Vishal has just made. I think something that I would add to that is to think of something that you are interested in, something that maybe you know a little bit about the problem domain already and think of possible problems in something that you're familiar with that do have the capacity to be solved with a computing solution. Or if you're working, think about how things are going at your work and think about whether you can construct or frame a project in that context. One of the nicest projects I've ever read was a student who made an app for his younger brother, I think age eight, to predict the football results in one of the leagues on a Saturday afternoon because his little brother, I think he liked betting actually, to see if he could win some money. And his little brother loved football. So this was an app that had one user, but it made that one user extremely happy. And it had an awful lot of computing and IT in it. And I think it got some good results as well. So every project is unique. And I think my best advice is it's going to be your companion for eight months, 300 hours. Do something that, you know, you will really, really enjoy because it's a great opportunity. It did work, yes. Probably predicted that Arsenal wouldn't win the league. Yeah, I think the personalization bit is so important. I mean, I think either it means something to you technologically or the application domain. Those are two. I mean, I remember when I did my undergraduate project years ago, I had three years of hardware engineering, and I really wanted to do software. So just the ability to actually have a software project was really nice. And so my focus was a programming language. But actually, later on, when I started working on projects, I found that the application domain was more interesting than the technology. So doing something for a particular medical condition or for predicting football results or for helping you with your shopping, you know, really is quite motivating because you sort of really understand the requirements. And then it allows you to focus on the technology in a different way than if you're discovering the technology. So each one of those projects will lead you down a different kind of analysis, one where you reflect on the problem domain and one where you also reflect on the technology. So they prod and probe different skills. Thank you. I'll switch the recording off now.
