tmxy475_2017j_vid003-320x176

LEONOR BARROCA: Hi, I'm Leonor Barroca. I'm the chair of the computing and IT project, TM470, and I'm here today with Gavin Tennet, who is a current student with the project, and he's here to tell us a bit about the project he's doing, the problems he's facing, and any other things he wants to talk about.
So Gavin, I would start by asking you what your project is about and how you went around to focus on it.
GAVIN: OK. My project's to develop a system to capture the information required by local authorities to deal with service requests. I work for a local authority myself, so I've had experience of similar systems, and I wanted to basically develop a system which was simpler and perhaps involved- avoided some of the problems I've found with other systems in use, basically.
LEONOR BARROCA: Great, so what were the problems you faced at the starting of the project?
GAVIN: I think the difference between previous modules I've studied and the project module is that in previous modules, the material is presented to you and examples have been thought up and in some instances contrived to illustrate learning points. When you move on to doing the project, in a sense it's more real world, so you have to not necessarily take the perfect scenario that you might use for learning to illustrate a point. You have to take the situation as it is and try and adapt your project and constrain the scope so as to get a useful result with the resources you have available. That was one of the big things, I thought.
LEONOR BARROCA: So at the moment you're probably halfway through the project, preparing for TMA3, so what are the problems you're facing now?
GAVIN: I think the problems I'm facing now are keeping up, I think is probably one thing. Some of the advice I've had from tutors, and I think some of the way the project is structured in terms of the emphasis that they put on advance planning- at the start of the project, where I have to say I felt that it was perhaps not as necessary as tutors and some of the material from the OU gave me to believe. Now, looking back on that, I can see why they put such emphasis on that, and that has helped to keep me on track, because the development of a plan- in my case, a structured plan with tasks that are numbered and dated, has allowed me to monitor my progress and put in extra effort when it's been required to keep up.
It's also allowed me to actually flip between different tasks, so in my case, I've done some of the later tasks in advance, if you like, of some of the middle tasks, and I think that's allowed me to have a break between some of the more arduous work and focus on things that I perhaps enjoy more and I'm better at and then rest myself, if you like, so I can then come back and deal with things that aren't as perhaps easy for myself. So I think that's been very valuable.
LEONOR BARROCA: Great. So if you find- if you meet a student that is going to start the project, what would you tell them- anything that you'd liked to have known at the beginning of the project and you didn't?
GAVIN: I think the actual choice of project is important. In my view, it's important to choose something that you like and you've got an interest in, because it's hard work, I think, TMA470, and if you choose something that you haven't got a real interest in and perhaps even some advanced insight into, I think you're going to make it much harder for yourself.
The other key piece of advice I would give is to ensure that you put as much work into the plan and you refine it as much as you can at as early a stage as possible, because you will come up against issues, technical issues particularly, that you weren't expecting. I think people have said earlier on today about issues that are over the horizon. I have come up against a few issues such as that, which can be overcome, but there will be extra work involved in doing that, and to some extent, the scope of my project will be limited by that work.
LEONOR BARROCA: And also keeping working on it on a regular basis, not only for the day before.
GAVIN: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I thought it was working, yeah.
LEONOR BARROCA: I'd like to ask you from my point of view, from the model point of view, is there anything that you'd like to suggest, both in terms of how the project is run, the materials that you have available. Did you miss anything that is not there?
GAVIN: I think the materials that were available for the most part were good. I think the only thing I would suggest is in terms of the actual fact that because the project is creative and you're not just learning from previous material- so there's not a set path through this module, as there were in some of the other modules. It's not just a case of learning what you're taught, ticking the boxes, perhaps doing a little bit of research around it. The project is much more, involves much more research.
I think one thing that was extremely useful to me were the library sessions for the OU that were run by one of your colleagues, and it wasn't necessarily even the fact that it was specific to IT and computing. It was the actual research skills that they gave you and how they explained to you that you could use the library and you could also use the internet for searches in different ways, ways that I hadn't used before, because I've been in education for some time. That not only helped me with the project, but it also helped me in professional life as well. It's come in quite useful.
But coming back to things that perhaps could be- or extra things that could be put in to help students, I realise it's difficult, but I think example-type projects would be good. I think it's the extent and the scope of the work that you would expect to see as part of a project, because I think there's a danger that students can yo-yo to some extent, as I did, and you get very grandiose ideas about what you can deliver, a very broad project that's also in depth, and when you actually start working through it, you think, I'm never going to be able to deliver. I'll have to reduce the scope.
For me, I did- after the start of the course, I did actually get advice from my tutor, and that did actually help me to narrow the scope. I realised that it was OK to do that, and it was perhaps the quality of the presentation and the work that was important, not just the actual- trying to cover the world's problems, as it were.
LEONOR BARROCA: Yeah, that's an issue we keep fighting on, shall we give students other projects that will be used by some students as something they have to do exactly?
GAVIN: Yeah.
LEONOR BARROCA: So, it's quite a tricky one, but we'll keep on thinking about that one.
GAVIN: I can understand your point. You wouldn't want students to just copy the project, and they are, of course, very different, depending on whether you're doing a development or research project. I think it's an illustration. Anything that can provide a greater illustration of the types of work and the level of work that would be required is beneficial.
LEONOR BARROCA: Just one further issue. Did you make any use at all of the project preparation forum?
GAVIN: Not to the same extent. I did briefly, but not to the extent I should have done, I think, and that probably would have helped me more if I had have done. There were obviously forums going throughout the course in terms of the TMAs which I've used, and they have to some extent been helpful.
One of the issues I find, though, is that because, as we previously mentioned, all projects are slightly different, students have a very wide variety of experiences and a wide variety of problems and a very diverse nature of the project, so some of the things that you look at on the forum really don't relate to my project at all. Some do, but some don't. It's quite interesting for general learning purposes, but they wouldn't necessarily be able to give you specific guidance, whereas the tutor does tend to be able to do that. They can be a little more specific in that, yeah.
LEONOR BARROCA: Yeah, the project forum, yeah, seems to be quite useful for students to really dive into it and use it. OK, Gavin, thank you very much for this very interesting conversation. Thank you.

