tmxy475_2017j_vid004-320x176

INTERVIEWER: On this module, support from your tutor is crucial. How did you establish a good way to work with your tutor?
SUBJECT: Well, initially, at the start of the module. We had the telephone conversation, and we obviously introduced each other. We were introduced to each other, beg your pardon, and after that, it was a process of experimentation, that you said, well, I accept phone calls. I'll accept emails. For me, emails seemed to work well. It allowed me to contact my tutor, wait a reasonable period for a response- obviously because the times when it would suit me to work might not actually match with yours exactly, but having a plan, I could skip to other parts of the programme if I was actually waiting on or not, so it was crucial to my progress. So that's worked for me.
In some ways, I think email's good because you can then reread them, and it enables you to refresh your memory on previous contacts rather than trying to remember a telephone conversation. In other ways, they're not quite as interactive, so it might take on- I think on one occasion it took more than one email from my tutor to clarify the point with me, so we got to share an understanding of what was expected; but in general, I felt the emails were very beneficial from my perspective.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, there are times when some things are simpler on a phone call to sort out. If questions tend to be spreading out, if the answers are diverging, it's easier with a phone call than by email, but sometimes Skype, or other electronic communications help. Sometimes you encounter a problem and just asking for help seems to be a big step. How have you broken the ice and made contact?
SUBJECT: I haven't really been shy in relation to contacting my tutor in that regard. I think that the tutors are very amenable to being contacted, which does help. They don't tend to give you the impression that- my current tutor and tutors on previous OU modules give you the impression that you're wasting their time even though, I guess if they've heard the question a number of times before.
I'll always try initially and resolve the problem myself, and I'll look to do some internet research whatever the case might be, so I'll find some specific material to perhaps highlight a problem and then even suggest some potential solutions to the tutor to see if they feel that I'm on the right line, but I haven't, personally, had any difficulties with actually just contacting my tutor by email and saying, this is an error. I've got a problem. Or there's a slight lack of clarity on my part. Can you assist me in clarifying what the question might be?
INTERVIEWER: Good, sometimes having a part of an answer is a best way to start the conversation with the tutor to see if you're on the right lines, and that helps you resolve in your own mind, the best approach.
SUBJECT: If you contacted the tutor with too wide of a question because I guess from their perspective they've got to have an inkling at least of what the problem might be, so if you can narrow it down for them as much as possible, it would allow them to draw on their experience to give you a good answer.
INTERVIEWER: And sometimes you might come away with a different answer.
SUBJECT: Absolutely.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, it helps you develop.
SUBJECT: Different way of how to approach something, yeah.
INTERVIEWER: Good. OK, there's an awful lot of material on the web site. Could you pick your best bits?
SUBJECT: I think, for me, the forums and the information that are presented on them. Particularly for the TMAs, are very beneficial, because they highlight common problems for you that are, if you like, perhaps shared by a number of students, and often the moderators on the forums will provide answers to those, and that enables you to immediately get some reassurance that you're not the only one suffering this problem to some extent, but also to give you a good general answer that you can work on in the context of your own project.
I guess it would remove some workload from choosing in answering a lot of mundane questions that I've always got to answer a number of times, but I found them to be very beneficial. The other part, the OU website, the OU library, I find that to be very beneficial particularly in researching individual issues that relate to my project and the types of information I need to refine in and to apply it.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, sometimes forums can seem a little intimidating, but there's still a benefit even if you look in the forum to see that other people have encountered similar issues, so you don't necessarily have to contribute in the forum.
SUBJECT: No, not necessarily. It depends if you've- typically, for my own part, if I've logged onto the forum, had to look. Realised the question has already been answered, it saves you going any further, so to speak. If the question hasn't, you can raise a thread on the forum, and hopefully somebody else would have encountered it and would be able to provide you with an answer. It allow students to mutually help each other as well as gaining expertise of the moderators as well.
INTERVIEWER: Is there a part of the website that you wish you'd found earlier?
SUBJECT: I think preparation forums would have been beneficial for me. I had a reasonably clear idea of what I wanted to do, by way of a project, but one of the things it would have allowed me to do, I think is to frame it in such a way and adjust the scope, so that it fitted in with the reality of what you can deliver in a project. So I think from my personal perspective, I think if I had made more use of the project preparation forums, that would have been beneficial.
INTERVIEWER: So it helps you focus, maybe, the topic into something that relates to a project you can carry out, building on one of the third-level modules.
SUBJECT: Yes, absolutely.
INTERVIEWER: OK, thank you very much.
SUBJECT: Thank you.
